Title:  The Cage Fight With Musk Never Happened, but Zuck Won 2023 

This summer, Mark Zuckerberg and Elon Musk blew the internet’s  mind by claiming they would fight each other in a “cage match”-style brawl. The rival tech execs were feuding over their platforms’  competition in the microblogging space and their proposed solution to this  rivalry was to beat the crap out of each other in front of a live audience. Zuck had been training UFC-style, making him a tad more threatening than his previous iteration as a hoodied Harvard loser. Musk, on the other hand, said he would shed some pounds and get a trainer. The fight promised to be one of the most memorable events in web history.  Of course, this much anticipated event never materialized. Musk allegedly kept dodging Zuck on plans for the fight, which led Zuck to call the whole thing off. As a result, we may never know which middle-aged billionaire is better at hand to hand combat. That said, if you were to size them up by the year they’ve had, it would be hard to argue that there hasn’t been a clear victor. Indeed, between the two of them, Zuck is obviously  the undisputed champ of 2023.  The reasons for this should be obvious. Musk had a  terrible year.  Most notably, the billionaire embarked on a buffoonish adventure to remake Twitter, his ill-advised acquisition. This  effort, which involved renaming the platform “X” and attempting to transform it into a so-called “everything app,” floundered from the get-go. Musk continually claimed that X would be really, really awesome just as soon as the necessary changes were made. Of course, a whole lot of changes later, things are still very un-awesome. The platform, which seems near death, has caused Musk nothing but grief over the last twelve months. At the same time, Musk has also been struggling on multiple, other fronts. In addition to suffering an increasing amount of flak and reputation decline for his, shall we say, free-spirited opinions, Musk’s car company, Tesla, is under attack by a cadre of pissed off Swedish labor unions. It appears the world’s richest man just can’t catch a break. By comparison, Zuck has managed to stay relatively scandal free throughout 2023 while also eeking out some victories that nobody really thought were possible. Case in point, a report published Monday showed that Meta’s stock is on track to have its best year ever. CNBC reports that the company’s stock rose a whopping 178 percent over the past twelve months. That means it’s having a better year than 2013, when its stock rose 105 percent following its IPO. Of course, it bears consideration that Zuck managed to gain that level of corporate buoyancy by firing a whole lot of people. Indeed, in a year full of Silicon Valley layoffs, Meta’s cost-cutting strategy stood out as particularly bloodthirsty. At any rate, Zuck’s main accomplishment has been to pull Meta out of its previous death spiral. Lest you’ve forgotten, the company spent most of 2022 hemorrhaging money and becoming an ever bigger laughingstock because, in response to a series of  public scandals (the Facebook Papers, anyone?), Zuck insisted on pivoting his company away from its traditional business and towards a quixotic effort to build  “the metaverse.” The Meta CEO was a steadfast believer in the idea that his company could singlehandedly help create an expanded market for virtual reality services, thus ushering in the next epoch of the internet. Instead, his strategy mostly led the company to lose gargantuan amounts of money, credibility, and stock value.  This year has provided Meta an opportunity to pivot once again, save some face, and look really good in comparison to competitor Musk’s flailing dumpster fire of a year. Meta’s launch of Threads was, if not exactly a blockbuster success, at least a modest one in comparison to X.  While Zuck is the clear winner of 2023, what next year holds for both tech oligarchs is anybody’s guess. Zuck is apparently planning for the future by building a doomsday bunker and Musk seems to have designs on his own university and, potentially, a moon base. As Zuck’s own reversal of fortune proves, the future is unwritten and no one knows what the new year will bring. 



Title:  Timothée Chalamet Isn’t Sure Why Dune Spoilers Are a Thing 

The future of the Dune movies are shrouded in a lot of secrecy, especially given the high anticipation for the now long-delayed Part Two. But at least one person at the heart of them is a little confused as to why, when you can get a pretty good gist of what’s to come by reading material that’s been out there for 70 years. Speaking to MTV recently about his time on Wonka as well as the new arrivals in the cast of Dune: Part Two, Chalamet inadvertently confirmed at least one major return—not for Part Two, but the still-potential (but highly likely, should director Denis Villeneuve have his way) third movie in the series, adapting Dune: Messiah. Last chance for you to turn back if, like MTV host Josh Horowitz, you haven’t gotten around to reading that one yet! Chalamet casually confirms that Jason Momoa’s Duncan Idaho—who perished in the first movie buying Paul and his mother time to escape House Harkonnen’s Sardaukar forces—won’t appear in Part Two, but will return for the third Dune movie. In Frank Herbert’s novel series, Duncan is reincarnated by the Bene Tleilax—masters of genetic engineering—as a “Ghola,” a clone first known as Hayt and sent by the Tleilax to try and assassinate Paul, only for the conflicting trauma of his conditioning and an innate loyalty to the Atreides unlocking his original memories as Idaho. Duncan gets reincarnated multiple times over across spans of thousands of years over the course of the remaining Dune books, re-accessing his memories each time until his final ghola retained both Idaho’s original memories and those of all his prior clones, and is established as a long-loyal advisor to Paul’s son, Leto II Atreides, and his line. It’s a lot, which is why in part it’s very funny that Chalamet so casually acknowledges that Idaho will be back. But the actor, confronted with—in an age of social media PR and studio secrecy being what it is—the modern day nightmare of having inadvertently spoiled something, defending himself by pointing out the absurdity of it all. “It’s so weird, because [the studios] are so secretive about the script, and about the trailer... well, [the books] have been out there for 70 years!” Which is fair! But it’s also pretty fair to assume that the vast majority of people who saw Dune also haven’t read a series of incredibly wild follow-ups to what is actually nearly a 60-year-old book franchise, so as slight as it might be (Idaho’s return is far from the most outlandish thing someone could know from the events of Dune Messiah in advance), it still is going to be news to some people that Momoa will be back down the line, even if that point is quite far away for now. A Duncan Idaho-less Dune: Part Two, meanwhile, will hit theaters March 1, 2024.  Want more io9 news? Check out when to expect the latest Marvel, Star Wars, and Star Trek releases, what’s next for the DC Universe on film and TV, and everything you need to know about the future of Doctor Who.



Title:  Americans Have a Snack Problem 

Your snack habit may be even more calorie-dense than you think, recent research suggests. A study estimated that snacking contributes to around 20% of an average American’s daily caloric intake, and these snacks often add little nutritional value. The scientists found, though, that people with type 2 diabetes seem to eat fewer snack-related calories. The study was led by scientists from The Ohio State University. Research has consistently shown that Americans’ diets have gotten bigger over time. And it’s likely that these extra calories have contributed to a rise in obesity and other metabolic disorders like type 2 diabetes. But the study authors say that little work has been done to specifically quantify the snacking patterns of adults with type 2. To better understand the issue, they decided to look at data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES), a nationally representative poll of Americans’ dieting and lifestyle habits regularly run by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. They analyzed NHANES data from 2005 to 2016, looking at the responses of more than 23,000 adults over the age of 30. These volunteers filled out a 24-hour diary of their most recent meals and gave blood samples used to measure their level of blood sugar control. The researchers found that people reported eating an average two snacks a day, no matter their diabetes status. Those without type 2 consumed roughly 500 calories from their snacks, while those with diagnosed diabetes or prediabetes ate slightly fewer. Overall, between 19.5% and 22.4% of a person’s daily calorie intake came from snacking, or about the same amount we might get from a full meal. And people’s snacks were typically not filled with the healthiest ingredients. Nearly half of the calories consumed in-between meals came from foods considered snacks and sweets, for instance, while 15% of these calories were from alcohol beverages in those without diabetes. “Regardless of diabetes status, our study shows that snacks contribute very little nutritional quality to the overall diet and may result in poorer dietary patterns,” the team wrote in their paper, published in October in the journal PLOS Global Public Health. The findings suggest that people with diabetes often make a conscious effort to cut down on snacking, and that further indicates that people are willing to listen to and heed advice on what kinds of foods they should eat or avoid, the study authors say. But they note that everyone could benefit from these lessons. “Diabetes education looks like it’s working, but we might need to bump education back to people who are at risk for diabetes and even to people with normal blood glucose levels to start improving dietary behaviors before people develop chronic disease,” said study author Christopher Taylor, professor of medical dietetics in the School of Health and Rehabilitation Sciences at OSU, in a statement from the university. 



Title:  Marvel Star Jonathan Majors Found Guilty of Reckless Assault 

The jury has reached a verdict in Jonathan Majors’ trial, declaring the Marvel Studios actor guilty of reckless assault in the third degree as well as guilty of harassment. He was found not guilty of intentional assault in the third degree and not guilty of aggravated harassment in second degree.  Update 12/18 4.55pm ET: Marvel and Disney have now parted ways with Majors in wake of the trial verdict. Read more on this news here. The original article is as follows. This news, reported by the Hollywood Reporter, brings the case—in which Majors faced charges of assault in the third degree with intent to cause physical injury, assault in the third degree recklessly causing physical injury, aggravated harassment in the second degree, and harassment in the second degree—to a close. This case was presented shortly after Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania opened at the start of the year after a dispute between Majors and then-girlfriend Grace Jabbari turned into a fight that was brought to New York City authorities by Jabbari.  Throughout the case Majors maintained his innocence to the Manhattan jury of six, and before the ruling his lawyers entered his plea of not guilty. Today’s ruling found the actor guilty of reckless assault in the third degree and guilty of harassment. The actor will face sentencing on February 6. Marvel Studios has yet to make a formal announcement of whether or not Majors will reprise his roles as Kang the Conqueror and the villainous character’s variants in the studio’s upcoming phase of films. Majors was recently seen as Victor Timely in Loki season two; based on the title alone, Kang is clearly a big part of Marvel’s planned 2026 release Avengers: The Kang Dynasty. That film recently lost its original director  Destin Daniel Cretton (who will re-shift his focus to Marvel’s Shang-Chi franchise) and gained a new writer in Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness scribe Michael Waldron. Want more io9 news? Check out when to expect the latest Marvel, Star Wars, and Star Trek releases, what’s next for the DC Universe on film and TV, and everything you need to know about the future of Doctor Who.



Title:  Marvel Drops Jonathan Majors as Kang After Assault Trial Verdict 

The future is uncertain for Avengers: The Kang Dynasty. Marvel’s planned crossover film, set for release May 1, 2026, will likely feature a new face taking over the role of Kang the Conqueror as Jonathan Majors has been ousted as the MCU’s reigning big bad. After the verdict in Majors’ court case, in which the actor was found guilty of third degree assault and harassment, Marvel now purportedly has a big role to fill. The Hollywood Reporter reports that the studio has chosen to drop Majors from his role as the key villain of its current phases of movies and TV shows, Kang the Conqueror. A Disney spokesperson also confirmed to io9 that Marvel will not be moving forward with Majors. Time will tell if we’re getting a whole pivot in regards to Marvel Studios’ current plans, although THR’s report further notes that Marvel intends to continue with the next Avengers film, Kang Dynasty, with Loki’s Michael Waldron hired last month to write the script. They continued to share that the film is now being referred to as Avengers 5, according to their Marvel sources. Makes sense, that they might not re-cast but rather shift to another villain all together—like Fantastic Four’s Dr. Doom. That and there are plenty of seeds sown across Marvel’s upcoming projects that could make way for a reworking of its Avengers plans however, like in The Marvels, which hinted that the Young Avengers may be taking the stage. Want more io9 news? Check out when to expect the latest Marvel, Star Wars, and Star Trek releases, what’s next for the DC Universe on film and TV, and everything you need to know about the future of Doctor Who.



Title:  Upcoming SpaceX Launch to Include First Direct-to-Cell Starlink Satellites 

SpaceX is gearing up to launch the first batch of Starlink satellites with direct-to-cell capability, with plans to test the technology in Earth orbit so that it can expand its reach on Earth beyond the range of cell towers. A total of 21 satellites will launch on board SpaceX’s Falcon 9 rocket at 12:09 a.m. on Friday, December 29 from the Vandenberg Space Force Base in California. The latest batch of Starlink satellites will include six satellites with a space-based cellular broadband network to “enable mobile network operators around the world to provide seamless global access to texting, calling, and browsing wherever you may be on land, lakes, or coastal waters,” SpaceX wrote. The space-to-cell service was originally supposed to be facilitated by SpaceX’s next generation Starlink satellites, according to Spaceflight Now. Those may take a while to get to orbit, however, as they are too big to fit on board a Falcon 9 rocket and are awaiting the completion of Starship instead. Last week, Billionaire Elon Musk’s private space venture was granted approval to test direct-to-cell calls between Starlink satellites and regular mobile phones. The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) approved SpaceX’s request for the new satellite technology for a duration of six months that will involve 2,000 test devices and 840 satellites using airwaves in partnership with T-Mobile, according to Bloomberg. SpaceX isn’t the only company looking to tap into the new technology. AST SpaceMobile wants to create the first space-based cellular broadband network directly accessible by cell phones, launching a prototype satellite in September 2022 (also on board a Falcon 9 rocket) which already made the first ever 5G phone call to a Samsung Galaxy S22 using AT&T spectrum. Virginia-based Lynk Global deployed three satellites designed to deliver service from space directly to cell phones on Earth.  The FCC is working to develop a legal framework through which companies can provide satellite service directly to cell phones through existing cell carriers. The idea is to deploy cell towers in space, eliminating the need for additional hardware on the ground to carry out a call, as well as expanding cell service in dead areas outside the range of cellular towers. Want to know more about Elon Musk’s space venture? Check out our full coverage of SpaceX’s Starship megarocket and the SpaceX Starlink internet satellite megaconstellation. And for more spaceflight in your life, follow us on X and bookmark Gizmodo’s dedicated Spaceflight page.



Title:  OpenAI’s New Board Members Are Now the Boss of Sam Altman (If They Want to Be) 

OpenAI has a new Board of Directors following its November skirmish, but they can still overrule CEO Sam Altman on any decisions he makes, according to a set of guidelines the company released Monday. That means if OpenAI creates artificial general intelligence (AGI), an AI system smarter than humans, the Board will have the final say in unleashing it. “The OpenAI Board of Directors (BoD), as the ultimate governing body of OpenAI, will oversee OpenAI Leadership’s implementation and decision making,” said OpenAI in the guidelines. “While Leadership is the decision-maker, the Board of Directors holds the right to reverse decisions,” said OpenAI. OpenAI says the Board of Directors still reigns supreme on all decisions, even though it nearly tanked the company last month by firing its CEO. Sam Altman and OpenAI President Greg Brockman lost their board seats as a result, meaning the company’s leadership no longer gets the final say. The company’s odd structure was a major reason for the November chaos, as the interests of the $90 billion company butted heads with its non-profit board. The guidelines titled “Preparedness Framework” detail OpenAI’s processes to evaluate, forecast, and protect against catastrophic risks posed by artificial intelligence. This is further evidence that OpenAI is actively working towards AGI, building on last week’s paper from its Superalignment team that proposed a process to train superhuman AI systems. Currently, the Board of Directors consists of former CEO of Salesforce Bret Taylor, former US Treasury Secretary Larry Summers, and active CEO of Quora Adam D’Angelo. Microsoft has been guaranteed a non-voting board seat, and Chairman Taylor will soon appoint other board members. These folks will likely be responsible for deciding when OpenAI can unleash superhuman computers. However, OpenAI’s old board members were largely researchers and outspoken advocates of AI safety, like Ilya Sutskever, Helen Toner, and Tasha McCauley. The new board members are big fans of Altman, with experience in politics and traditional profit-seeking ventures. OpenAI says its Board of Directors is “the ultimate governing body of OpenAI”. The Board is now supposed to receive monthly documentation from OpenAI’s Preparedness team on progress towards AGI, ensuring the Board is fully informed. Last month, the Board accused Sam Altman of not keeping them fully informed and cited that as a major reason for firing him. The Board of Director’s mission is to ensure that artificial general intelligence benefits all of humanity. Hopefully, the Board can stay true to its mission, instead of the for-profit interests led by Sam Altman. Given the fact that nearly all 700 employees and Microsoft were happy to jump ship without Sam Altman, that mission doesn’t look promising at the moment.



Title:  Tolkien Estate and Amazon Win Court Case for Lord of the Rings Rights 

It’s baffling that someone really tried to legitimize fan fiction when the estate of of The Lord of the Rings author is still actively pushing out adaptations of J.R.R. Tolkien’s seminal work. Amazon and the Tolkien estate were sued by author Demetrious Polychron, who after releasing his book titled The Fellowship of the King (his LOTR sequel), decided to go after the team that’s officially able to continue The Lord of the Rings franchise. Variety reports that the case was dismissed with prejudice by a California judge  in August. What’s hilarious is that the writer decided to write a whole new series inspired by Tolkien’s work, which was a planned seven-part series, without the authorization of the Tolkien estate. With the release of The Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power, Polychron sued  both Amazon and the Tolkien estate. In this original filing he claimed that the Prime Video show had lifted from his sequel and infringed on the copyright of his work. Yeah, really. The judge on the case called Polychron’s claim “unreasonable” for attempting to get copyright protection for his works that he based on Lord of the Rings characters, as well as “frivolous from the beginning.” Polychron now has to pay $134,637 in attorney’s fees to the Tolkien estate and Amazon. Want more io9 news? Check out when to expect the latest Marvel, Star Wars, and Star Trek releases, what’s next for the DC Universe on film and TV, and everything you need to know about the future of Doctor Who.



Title:  Elon Musk Gets the John Oliver Treatment 

It’s been a long year. The Titan submersible getting crushed? That was only six months ago even though it feels like it had to have been at least two years ago considering all that has happened since then. Elon Musk, especially, has been in the news constantly and rarely for anything positive. Yes, he finally managed to deliver 10 Cybertrucks, which is great news for Joe Rogan fans, and he cut prices on most of Tesla’s lineup, but he also made it abundantly clear over the last year that even if you like Teslas, you shouldn’t be giving him your money. In fact, Musk has been in the news so frequently that it can be incredibly hard to keep up, especially when it comes to all the racist, anti-Semitic, transphobic and generally bigoted views he’s been pushing on Twitter, a site that Vox reports is now worth less than half of what Musk paid for it back in 2022. And for some reason, telling advertisers to go fuck themselves after they decided they didn’t want their ads to appear next to bigoted posts didn’t fix the problem. His behavior on Twitter is more than enough of a reason to want nothing to do with Musk, but as John Oliver explained on the most recent episode of HBO’s Last Week Tonight, the problems with Musk go a lot deeper than that.  Yes, Oliver dedicated more than 30 minutes of that episode to exactly how much Musk sucks and how dangerous it is to let a man who sucks that much have so much power and influence. Unfortunately, since it’s Musk we’re talking about, 30 minutes isn’t even close to enough time to cover every single reason Musk sucks. Unless we missed it, some important things like the widely reported racism in Tesla’s factories and Musk’s longstanding hatred of unions didn’t make it in. Trust us, though, the episode still covers enough to make it worth 30 minutes of your time (or 15 minutes if you speed it up).  This article originally appeared on Jalopnik. 



Title:  Growing Up With Cats Linked to Higher Schizophrenia Risk 

Growing up with cats could have a strange effect on your mind, new research suggests. The study, a large review of existing literature, found that cat ownership at a young age was associated with a noticeably higher risk of developing schizophrenia and related disorders—a risk possibly fueled by increased exposure to the cat-hosted parasite Toxoplasma gondii. The findings don’t prove a cause-and-effect link between cats and schizophrenia, but they do warrant further research. T. gondii needs cats to complete its complex life cycle, but it infects other, intermediate hosts to get there, particularly rodents. Once inside a rodent, the single-celled protozoan parasite will reach the brain and alter the host’s behavior, making them more fearless and therefore vulnerable to being eaten by cats. The parasite can also infect the brains of other large warm-blooded animals, humans included. Cat bites or exposure to their feces can expose us to the parasite, though we can also catch it from eating undercooked meat or drinking contaminated water. While human infections are a dead-end for T. gondii, they might still leave a lasting mark on us.  People can develop an usually mild but rarely life-threatening acute infection called toxoplasmosis, for instance (this is more common for newborns infected in the womb, which is why pregnant women are often told to not scoop cat litter if they can avoid it). And some studies have found that chronic infection with T. gondii cysts can potentially influence the behavior and brain health of humans and other large animals, if more subtly than in rodents. For decades, some scientists have speculated that early exposure to T. gondii, usually via cats, can raise the risk of schizophrenia, a mental condition that typically emerges in early  adulthood. Researchers in Australia decided to take a broad look at the evidence for and against this hypothesis. They looked at 17 studies in total, conducted in 11 countries over a 44-year span. Overall, the researchers found a “significant positive association between broadly defined cat ownership and an increased risk of schizophrenia-related disorders.” Even after adjusting for other factors, they found that the associated likelihood of having schizophrenia was roughly doubled in those who had cats growing up. The results were published this month in the journal Schizophrenia Bulletin. And they do appear to pass muster, according to Brent Kious, a psychiatrist at the University of Utah Health’s Huntsman Mental Health Institute.  “This is a well-designed systematic review that comprehensively assessed the available literature about this topic, so it provides compelling evidence of an association. To that extent, it seems valid,” Kious, who was not affiliated with the study, told Gizmodo in an email. Kious does note that most of the reviewed studies are retrospective, meaning that they look back in time to find potential associations. These types of studies are valuable but can’t fully rule other confounding variables or firmly establish a causal relationship. It’s possible, for instance, that people who go on to develop psychosis later in life are more likely to come from a family that owned cats for any number of reasons, rather than that having cats raises your risk of psychosis.  Another relevant issue is that schizophrenia is rare. According to the World Health Organization, about one in 300 people worldwide are thought to have schizophrenia currently (0.32% of the population). So even a genuine two-fold increase in risk from growing up with cats would still result in a very small absolute risk of schizophrenia overall.  At the same time, the idea that T. gondii could cause schizophrenia and similar disorders in humans is certainly plausible, Kious says. It’s thought that cysts in mouse brains can independently produce the neurotransmitter dopamine, for example, and this extra dopamine could cause problems in a human brain as well. “Excess dopamine release in the mesolimbic system is implicated in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia, so it’s conceivable that Toxoplasma-induced increases in dopamine contribute to the development of psychosis,” he said. “There’s also a lot of evidence that inflammation in the brain, which might increase synaptic pruning (cutting the microscopic connections between neurons), is involved in schizophrenia, and it’s likely that having a parasite in your brain increases inflammation.” The link between cats, T. gondii, and schizophrenia definitely merits more study, Kious says. The likely strongest way to test this hypothesis would be to run a controlled experiment comparing the schizophrenia risk of kids exposed to T. gondii to those unexposed as they grow up. Unfortunately, that’s a study that wouldn’t be feasible or ethical for lots of reasons. But it might still be possible to explore and confirm this link by using data from prospective studies (ones that proactively track people’s health outcomes over a long period of time) that include questions about cat ownership, he says.



Title:  Huge Mortgage and Loan Company Suffers Data Breach Impacting 14 Million People 

If you’ve ever bought a home with the help of the  mortgage and loan firm Mr. Cooper, there’s a  good chance that your personal information has been stolen by cybercriminals.  TechCrunch first reported that Mr. Cooper suffered a pretty catastrophic data breach in October, the likes of which impacted as many as 14.6 million people. Mr. Cooper, formerly Nationstar Mortgages, is considered one of the largest mortgage and loan companies in the country. The firm, which was founded in 1994, currently handles home ownership services for some 4 million people, according to its website. However, the cyberattack the company recently experienced seems to have impacted not just current  but also former customers.  The company said, in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, that the breach had impacted “all of our current and former customers.” A separate filing says the total number impacted includes over 14 million people.  What customer information was compromised in the breach? In its own words, Mr. Cooper says that the breach included a wealth of customer data points, including their “name, address, phone number, Social Security number, date of birth, bank account number.” In its data breach filing with the Maine attorney general’s office, Mr. Cooper noted that malicious actors appeared to have been inside its systems for a couple of days before company authorities caught on to the intrusion.  “Through our investigation, we determined that there was unauthorized access to certain of our systems between October 30, 2023, and November 1, 2023. During this period, we identified that files containing personal information were obtained by an unauthorized party.” Additional details about the attack haven’t been shared at this time. When reached for comment by Gizmodo, a Mr. Cooper representative shared a short statement from Jay Bray, Chairman and CEO of the Mr. Cooper Group: “We take our role as a mortgage company very seriously, and there is nothing more important to us than maintaining our customers’ trust. I want you to know how sorry I am for any concern or frustration this may have caused. Making the homeownership journey as smooth as possible is our top priority, and we intend to make this right for our customers.” A statement about the breach on the company’s website says that is offering  two years of free credit monitoring and identity protection services to impacted customers. “We will be directly notifying customers and providing them with enrollment instructions for the free identity protection services,” the statement reads. 



Title:  The Fictional Characters We Lost in 2023 

Light a candle for those fictional characters we lost in 2023. Characters we’ve come to know either over the years, or maybe even over just a few short hours of a movie or TV show. But these characters left an impression on us meaning, as 2023 comes to an end, it was time to give them their final moment in the sun.  Spoiler alert. Obviously.



Title:  Buy the New Apple Watch Now Before It’s Banned 

Santa’s elves better hurry up and ship those new Apple Watches. Starting Dec. 21, the Apple Watch Series 9 and Ultra 2 will no longer be available for sale. Christmas Eve is the last day to buy one at the brick-and-mortar Apple retail store. What’s going on? Like all significant patent disputes, they come to a head around a major holiday. According to 9to5Mac, Apple is halting sales of its smartwatches because of a patent disagreement with a medical device maker. Masimo, which sells its version of blood oxygen monitoring to hospitals, claims the SpO2 monitor in the latest models of the Apple Watch violates one of its long-standing patents and stole information during a closed meeting back in 2013 after being approached by Apple for collaboration.  Masimo filed two complaints against Apple with the International Trade Commission (ITC) and the U.S. District Court in the Central District of California. This import ban comes from the ITC, which ruled in favor of Masimo in October. On its part, Apple already has a statement about the situation. A spokesperson told Gizmodo that the company is “preemptively taking steps to comply” if the ruling goes through. Apple is still waiting for the Biden Administration to veto the ban. The company is also making it known that it “strongly disagrees” with the order and is pursuing other avenues for keeping the Apple Watch on the shelf. “Should the order stand, Apple will continue to take all measures to return Apple Watch Series 9 and Apple Watch Ultra 2 to customers in the U.S. as soon as possible.” If you plan to buy someone the Apple Watch for Christmas, now is the time. Like, right as you’re finished reading this piece. Apple will likely appeal the ban if it goes through, but who knows how long that could take? The latest Apple Watch is worth buying for reasons other than its blood oxygen monitoring, which has become standard in the world of wearables. The double tap gesture is a nice bit of extra accessibility, not to mention on-device Siri makes dictation a cinch. The Series 8 is also a good idea if you want to avoid the ban and save a few hundred, but I’m a stickler for getting the latest gen when upgrading. 



Title:  Hasbro Unvaulted Some of Its Rarest Toy Projects, and Sold Them Out Immediately 

Hasbro’s Haslab series—a crowdfunding drop line that lets the toymaker make some truly wild toys it could never feasibly release to the mass market, should enough collectors actually want them—is meant to be a one and done thing. The campaign starts, and if it hits its goals, when it ends pretty much all that’s ever made is to fulfill the orders of who backed it. That doesn’t mean, however, that Hasbro doesn’t have some of them hiding in its vaults. Today the embattled toymaker announced to mark its 100th anniversary it would open the HasLab Vault for select projects across the legions of Transformers, G.I. Joe, Star Wars, Marvel, and Ghostbusters campaigns it had launched since 2018 for the first time, letting fans get their hands on collectibles that have, by and large outside of the aftermarket, been impossible to get since their individual crowdfunding campaigns wrapped up. Available solely to members of its “Pulse Premium” subscription, the vault was meant to be open from 12 p.m. ET today, December 18, through to the same time tomorrow, December 19. Except... it’s all already gone. Hasbro launched just five projects as part of the vault today—two Transformers projects, the War for Cybertron Unicron and the Victory Saber; the Ghostbusters proton pack; the G.I. Joe Skystriker jet; and two versions of its relaunch of HeroQuest. As of writing, just HeroQuest in either its forms is still available, but the rest—starting as “low” as $180, all the way up to $575—pretty much sold out in an instant. It makes sense—not a lot of these toys were made beyond the demand of their respective crowdfunding campaigns, so Hasbro was never going to have a lot of them on hand to sell. But it’s still absolutely wild to see, especially given that the selection missed out on some notable heavy hitters from the series, like the Marvel Legends or Star Wars lines. Click through to see what was on offer, or head on over to Hasbro Pulse to see what your wallet is thankful you missed out on. Or buy HeroQuest while you still can, I guess.



Title:  Uranus Is Luminous and Ringed in New Webb Telescope Image 

Yes, that’s Uranus. The giant icy orb looks more like an agatized dinosaur egg than a planet in this new image by the Webb Space Telescope. Uranus, the seventh planet from the Sun, still holds plenty of secrets. We know it’s an ice giant, thought to be mostly (80% or more) icy water, ammonia, and methane surrounding a rocky core, and that it has skies rich with hydrogen sulfide. It also has a ring system, one that’s far less familiar to us than the circles around Saturn.  Though Uranus’ rings were imaged before—by Hubble in November 2014 and November 2022 and by Webb in April, the new, gorgeous image adds some detail. For one, this Webb image—taken by the observatory’s Near-Infrared Camera (NIRCam)—captures the planet’s faint Zeta ring, the ring closest to the planet. The close-up above shows nine of the planet’s moons. In clockwise order, starting at 2 o’ clock, they are Rosalind, Puck, Belinda, Desdemona, Cressida, Bianca, Portia, Juliet, and Perdita. Uranus’ moons are sometimes called the “literary moons,” NASA’s website states, because they are named for characters in the works of William Shakespeare and Alexander Pope. Uranus has 27 known moons, 14 of which are visible in the image below: Oberon, Titania, Umbriel, Juliet, Perdita, Rosalind, Puck, Belinda, Desdemona, Cressida, Ariel, Miranda, Bianca, and Portia, according to an ESA release. The deep blue crescent on Uranus is caused by the large north polar cap, which dominates the planet’s right side from Webb’s perspective. Uranus has an extreme tilt relative to the solar system’s orbital plane, which is why its northern pole is oriented toward the Sun. The polar cap will be facing Earth directly in 2028, giving Webb and Hubble scientists an opportunity to better image the unique structure. Uranus is way more than the butt of our jokes; it is a venue of intrigue for  planetary scientists. In October, analysis of data from the Keck II telescope revealed a reddish color rimming the planet, an aurora caused by the ion H3+, which glows in the infrared in Uranus’ skies. Last year, the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine named Uranus as one of the top priorities for science in the next decade. Specifically, the academies’ report says that the highest priority flagship mission through 2032 should be a probe of Uranus. Yes, the jokes write themselves, but that doesn’t make the study of this planet any less important. More: The Best Space Images of 2023



Title:  Indie Film Fans Now Have a New Prime Video Channel: Film Movement Plus 

There’s already a niche streaming service for nearly every appetite, but indie film fans searching beyond the mainstream now have yet another new resource: Film Movement Plus, which launched on December 15 as an add-on subscription channel for Prime Video customers. Though the new channel ($5.99 a month, with a seven-day free trial available for new subscribers) exists in addition to Film Movement’s original streaming service, which launched in 2018, it’s clearly designed to make the distributor’s catalog more accessible to wider Prime Video audiences. A press release touts the “curated collection of independent and world cinema, cult and arthouse classics, documentaries and North American exclusives to Prime Video customers via Prime Video Channels,” with new movies, including exclusives and new-to-streaming titles, added on a weekly basis. Some of the exclusive films you’ll find available now include Diamond Island, Holy Beasts, The Mayor of Rione Sanita, Hellhole, While the Women Were Sleeping, Claire Darling, and Faith. Other titles include digitally restored versions of Sergio Corbucci’s The Great Silence, Ang Lee’s Pushing Hands, Lee Tamahori’s Once Were Warriors, and Ming-liang Tsai’s Vive L’Amour. “Since 2002, Film Movement’s objective has been to acquire cinematic gems from around the world and share them with American audiences. And, for the past five years, Film Movement Plus has given us a broad platform to serve cineastes with curated cinema wherever they may be,” Film Movement president Michael Rosenberg said in the press release. “By launching our service on Prime Video via Prime Video Channels, we make it even easier for customers to enjoy our films and find the many titles that are only available on Film Movement Plus.”



Title:  Amazon's Warhammer 40,000 Deal Is Now Really, Really Real 

In the grim dark future of the 41st millennium, there is only... contract negotiations? A year ago Games Workshop announced that it was working with Amazon Studios to bring the universe of its legendary sci-fi miniatures game Warhammer 40,000 to film and TV. Today it did so again, but now it’s even officialler. The deal announced in December 2022 was not actually necessarily final, but one of the earliest stages of the licensing process: an agreement in principle. What’s happened now is that the agreement is, well... no longer just in principle. Amazon now has the rights to make Warhammer 40,000 film and TV projects, hire talent to develop them and then, eventually, put some of those ideas into production.   “All we can tell you right now is that an elite band of screenwriters, each with their own particular passion for Warhammer, is being assembled to help bring the setting and characters you love to the screen,” Games Workshop said in a new statement released today.    This means work can actually begin on adapting Warhammer’s dystopian setting, and also that it’s going to be a considerable chunk of time before we see anything out of it. “TV and Film production is a mammoth undertaking. It’s not unusual for projects to take two to three years from this point before something arrives on screen,” Games Workshop cautioned fans in its press release. Case in point: back in 2019, the games publisher revealed that it was developing a TV series with Spotnitz Productions based around the character of Gregor Eisenhorn, an Inquisitor in the Imperium of Man’s order of zealous investigators into corruption and heresy. We’ve pretty much heard nothing since, not even that plans to make it have fallen apart—although that now seems much more likely if Amazon has wholesale access to the adaptive rights for 40K as a setting, Eisenhorn included. Yup! The former Superman and Witcher—an unabashed fan of 40K who has used his platform in recent years to geek out about his miniatures—will still executive produce Amazon’s projects, regardless of the form they take, “bringing his pen, sword and/or spear to the project,” as Games Workshop put it in the company’s statement.  That doesn’t necessarily mean Cavill will star in those projects, but... c’mon. C’mon. That man is too much of a 40K nerd to not show up in some capacity during all of this. He’ll be advising behind the scenes and no doubt lecturing as many people as he can pin down on the nitty gritty details of Warhammer lore, but that doesn’t preclude him from appearing on-screen. As who? Time will tell, but we’ve previously had some very silly suggestions about that.   Want more io9 news? Check out when to expect the latest Marvel, Star Wars, and Star Trek releases, what’s next for the DC Universe on film and TV, and everything you need to know about the future of Doctor Who.



Title:  Elon Musk's X Under Investigation for Spreading ‘Illegal Content’ on Israel and Hamas in EU 

The European Union opened a formal investigation into Elon Musk’s X on Monday examining the platform’s role in spreading ‘illegal content’ around the Israel and Hamas war. X has come under fire recently for antisemitic content on the platform, losing a slew of advertisers in the process. “The European Commission has opened formal proceedings to assess whether X may have breached the Digital Services Act (DSA) in areas linked to risk management, content moderation, dark patterns, advertising transparency, and data access for researchers,” said European regulators on Monday. The Digital Services Act defines illegal content as any information that is not in compliance with the European Union’s laws, but the authorities didn’t say exactly which laws X is believed to be breaking. European regulators specifically call out content around the Israel and Hamas war as a factor in the investigation. The White House admonished Musk in November for promoting “anti-semitic and racist hate” with his own X account. Elon Musk’s X says it was founded on a “commitment to transparency” and freedom of speech in its transparency report. This laissez-faire approach to moderation and Musk’s own incendiary comments have led to an exodus of advertisers like Disney, IBM, and Apple. While the United States has strong free speech protections, many European countries have harsh penalties for antisemitic speech. The German penal code prohibits publicly denying the Holocaust and disseminating Nazi propaganda, according to PBS. Regulators could potentially find that X has violated Germany’s laws by allowing widespread amplification of messages supporting Hitler, featuring swastikas, or other antisemitic content. Last month, a Media Matters investigation found that Apple and IBM’s content appeared next to pro-Nazi messaging. The EU will investigate whether X, designated as a Very Large Online Platform (VLOP) under the DSA, has put forth reasonable mitigation measures against the amplification of illegal content. European regulators will also examine advertisements on the platform, including what groups were shown certain ads. Musk ultimately sued Media Matters for defamation. Lastly, regulators will examine whether researchers have been given effective access to X’s platform data. Researchers and reporters have struggled to verify the statistics coming out of X, such as a claim that only 2 out of 500 million accounts saw antisemitic content next to Apple advertisements. The Center for Countering Digital Hate (CCDH), which researches hateful disinformation, says X has been unable to deal with “an unmistakable surge of extremism on the platform.” “Since Elon Musk completed his takeover of Twitter – and especially since the October 7 atrocities carried out by Hamas in Israel – bad actors have been empowered and encouraged to spew antisemitism, lies, and hate with impunity,” said Imran Ahmed, founder of the CCDH in a statement to Gizmodo. Elon Musk sued CCDH in August for scaring off advertisers as well. X said it was cooperating with the investigation in a tweet on Monday, but asked that this process “remains free of political influence and follows the law.” X then noted it was focused on creating a safe, inclusive environment while protecting freedom of expression.



Title:  Wheel of Time's Madeleine Madden on Egwene's Powerful Journey 

Season two of Prime Video’s Wheel of Time had a lot of high-stakes fantasy storylines to explore—but none so moving or haunting as the ordeal of Egwene, played in the Robert Jordan adaptation by Madeleine Madden. io9 got a chance to speak to the actor about her character’s harrowing, powerful journey. At the start of season one, Egwene is living a simple, quiet life in the remote Two Rivers region. Tragedy and fate set her and her friends on an epic quest to discover which among them is the Dragon Reborn—the person destined to fight the forces of evil and hopefully save the world. At the end of season one we learn Egwene’s not the chosen one—it’s Rand [Josha Stradowski], Egwene’s former sweetheart—a reveal that actually gives her license to become a far more interesting character. In season two, she becomes a novice with the Aes Sedai, a powerful magic sisterhood, and begins training her nascent powers—until she’s kidnapped by an invading army, the Seanchan, and becomes enslaved as a “damane,” or “leashed one.” She’s forced to wear a painful collar (called an “a’dam”) that prevents her from using magic of her own free will. She’s kept in a cell, or “kennel,” and must obey the commands of Renna (Xelia Mendes-Jones), who treats her with passive-aggressive cruelty and sometimes just plain cruelty, too. The situation builds to a startling confrontation, which we discussed with Madden in our interview below. Cheryl Eddy, io9: Season two was incredibly physical for Egwene. What sorts of preparations did you have to undergo ahead of filming? Madeleine Madden: I knew episode six [“Eyes Without Pity”] was coming up, and I knew that it was going to require a lot for me physically and emotionally. I was very lucky to work with Scarlett Mackmin, our fantastic movement coach, who was a massive support for me leading up to filming and during filming, in ways to warm up or cool down, stay physical, and the beats which we needed to hit. Also our director Maja [Vrvilo] really let me just play and leaned into whatever I had to offer. It’s a really important part of my process  to look at art—whether it’s paintings, dance, or films; I found inspiration from the things that people are doing  physically and where people sort of hold pain and torment and sorrow and grief in their body. I would really reflect on that, and also refer back to the books as well. Robert Jordan has a fantastic way of writing with such detail; there was a lot in the books—even though it wasn’t one of the bigger parts of the book, there were still little nuggets of gold in there where I could be like, “Okay, this is where Egwene felt pain from the a’dam,” whether it was in her head or in her chest, or in body spasms. I really wanted to go all out to show the power that this thing could do, and the torment and torture that women go through. When you see Ryma [the Aes Sedai of the Yellow Ajah], get captured—and that’s on the back of seeing all of these horrific things that have happened to Egwene—that’s when you feel as an audience member that there are things worse than death in this world, and the breaking of these women is truly horrific. All of those women that you see that are damane have gone through a truly horrific time being collared. io9: You had to pull off some really heightened emotions using just your eyes. What was that experience like for you? Madden: It was really difficult. In the [“Eyes Without Pity”] script—which, Rammy [Park] did a brilliant job; I just think she’s just one of the most fantastic writers, and was so lucky to be given an episode like that from her—it was very adamant that Egwene does not cry. She does not cry. She’s not crying, she’s not crying. And only at the end, when she touches that pitcher and has lost her sense of self and her sense of hope and strength, she cries and just breaks down in full grief. There were times when we were filming where I was just wanting to cry as an actor, and I had moments where I was crying and we couldn’t film because I was like, “I just need to take a minute because I  need to let this come out of me and come back to it.” So I think that also plays into Egwene’s strength of how she really held on until the last minute of, like, even though she may be physically beaten and broken and sitting in the corner of the cell lifeless, she still holds so much strength internally. That final scene  when she breaks down, that also felt very real for me. We shot chronologically— so we were lucky enough to film in order of sequence—so I could sort of go on that emotional and physical journey with Egwene. io9: A lot of season two has other characters rushing to save Egwene, but in the end she’s able to free herself, though there’s a steep cost involved. What do you think she’s feeling in that moment when she kills Renna? Madden: I think the relationship between Renna and Egwene is such a unique one, because through all of her brutality and torment, Renna taught Egwene just how special she really is and how strong she is. And Egwene no longer feels that she needs to prove herself to anyone anymore. She knows what she’s capable of and just how powerful she is. And it’s an interesting contrast with everyone saying “We need to save Egwene!” when really Egwene’s like, “The only way I’m getting out of this is if I save myself.” At the end, you don’t know whether Egwene is going to kill Renna or not, but we really just see how ruthless she’s become. She’s an entirely different beast now. And there are flickers throughout—when she’s on the tower, is she actually going to carry through with what the Dark wants her to do, just becoming this ruthless weapon of destruction that they can use? When she’s killing the White Cloaks, when she kills Renna, she has changed. She is darker, she is more ruthless. I think now she feels strong enough where she can protect her friends. She doesn’t need to look to other people now for strength and guidance. She is that for herself.  io9: In the finale, she has immediately go from that whole emotional situation to, “Oh, wait, my friends are here and I need to be with them in this other battle that’s happening.” Was that an especially rewarding scene to film, considering most of the cast was spread across different adventures for most of the season? Madden: It’s so nice when we have moments like that because obviously we all go off on different storylines. I didn’t film with them for the entirety of the season. So when we do come back together, it does really feel like a homecoming and a reunion. But after Egwene kills Renna and Rand finds her on the tower, I think she’s just in a complete state of shock and trauma and doesn’t know if he’s actually real, because the past couple of months have just been a complete mind-bending experience. I think the recurring theme throughout this whole season—for all of the characters, for all of our heroes—is what they find out about themselves in their isolation. They find out who they really are, but then ultimately, they are strongest when they are together and they are fighting alongside of each other. They won’t be able to face and defeat the evil in this world if they aren’t standing unified. io9: By the end of season two, Egwene is no longer that girl we met at the Two Rivers, and she’ll continue to evolve as we move into season three. What’s been the most surprising part of her journey so far for you? Madden: I think just seeing really how determined she is and how strong she is. We’ve been told through [other] characters that “Egwene’s unbreakable, the unbreakable Egwene.” But I think we as an audience, and also as an actor, really see just what a tough little egg she is. Episode six is a big turning point for her. It was something that I was really ready for as an actor. I think even Egwene was sick of feeling dependent on people and  reliant on people and needing their guidance or approval. Here in this moment, in this episode, she was powerful for herself. She saved herself for herself. She was strong for herself. And she’s forever changed because of this  experience. This time being a damane will have [an effect] on her for the rest of her life, and also her relationship with authority and figures of authority, and institutions that represent authority and control in the world. Seasons one and two of The Wheel of Time are now streaming on Prime Video; a third season is on the way. Want more io9 news? Check out when to expect the latest Marvel, Star Wars, and Star Trek releases, what’s next for the DC Universe on film and TV, and everything you need to know about the future of Doctor Who.



Title:  The Soaring Highs and Stark Lows of Spaceflight in 2023 

It’s time to look back at spaceflight in 2023, a real “two steps forward, one step back” kind of year, filled with highs, lows, and everything in between. The New Space Race is in full swing, and with both public and private entities pushing the limits of what’s possible, failures are an inevitability, as is progress. 2023 was no exception, with some notable achievements like historic deep space missions and advancements in satellite and rocket technology, alongside setbacks such as fiery launch mishaps and maddening project delays. Starship, the most important rocket currently in development, performed two flights in 2023, both ending in explosions. SpaceX made considerable progress with its megarocket during the calendar year, but the inaugural flight on April 20 was an epic fiasco that served to delay the program by several months.  Launching from SpaceX’s Starbase facility in Boca Chica, Texas, the Super Heavy booster, powered by 33 Raptor engines, laid waste to its immediate surroundings owing to the absence of protective infrastructure. A gigantic pit formed directly beneath the launch mount, with the displaced dust and debris falling onto nearby areas. The launch also resulted in a 3.5-acre fire on state park land. Conservation groups sued the Federal Aviation Administration, claiming the launch should have never been allowed. Adding insult to injury, SpaceX struggled to destroy the 394-foot-tall (120-meter) rocket after it entered into a fatal tumble  above the Gulf of Mexico. Roughly 40 seconds passed before Starship finally succumbed to the self-destruct command—an intolerable delay for such an important safety feature.  An ensuing investigation by the FAA, accompanied by the implementation of 63 corrective measures, pushed the second Starship launch all the way to November 18. The second launch showcased a newly implemented water deluge system designed to temper the booster’s force, along with a hot staging technique aimed at reducing stress on the rocket during stage separation. Starship achieved several key milestones during the second flight, including stage separation, but both the booster and the upper stage were destroyed during the eight-minute test flight.  The rocket, designed to be fully reusable, is poised to transform the industry, boasting a substantial payload capacity and the potential for cost-effective launches. SpaceX CEO Elon Musk aims to use the rocket for transporting settlers to Mars, while NASA envisions it as a means to send astronauts to the Moon’s surface. SpaceX made good but not great progress with the rocket in 2023; even so, the program, with two launches now in the books, is in full swing. The coming year should bear witness to even more progress and possibly even a trek to low Earth orbit.  In other SpaceX developments, the company maintained its torrid pace of launches, positioning itself to achieve 100 orbital missions within the year. The company debuted its Starlink V2 minis, which feature several design improvements and a smaller form factor. This compact size enables the company to deploy these satellites using the Falcon 9 rocket while the development of Starship continues. 2023 reinforced the old adage, “What goes up must come down,” and it also reminded us that sometimes things return to Earth earlier than anticipated. SpaceX’s Starship failed during its two demo flights, but so did other fledgling launch vehicles.  The H3 rocket, Japan’s new flagship rocket, experienced a critical failure after liftoff on March 7, when its second-stage engine failed to ignite, leading to the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) issuing a self-destruct command. This incident marked a significant blow to Japan’s aspirations in the space industry, particularly affecting its goal of increasing its presence in the competitive fields of satellite launching and space exploration. The H3, intended to be a flexible and cost-effective successor to the reliable H2A rocket, was part of Japan’s broader efforts to gain a foothold in the satellite launch market. Making matters worse, the H3 rocket was carrying a $200 million satellite during the inaugural flight, attracting the ire of critics who say an untested rocket should never have carried such a valuable payload. One of the more interesting launches to occur in 2023 was the first flight of Relativity Space’s Terran 1—a rocket built primarily from 3D-printed parts. Terran 1 failed to reach orbit during its launch on March 23, but it did survive Max-Q (the peak of aerodynamic stress), strongly hinting at the viability of 3D-printed rockets, which (in theory) will be quick and cheap to build. The California-based company is already working on the next version, which promises to be bigger and better.  ABL Space Systems’ tiny RS1 rocket also failed during its inaugural launch in early January, creating a serious mess at the Alaska launch site. In September, Rocket Lab’s usually reliable Electron experienced an in-flight anomaly, grounding the SpaceX rival for three months. That said, Rocket Lab reached an important milestone in 2023, sending up rockets from the U.S. as well as from its launch facility in New Zealand.  As for United Launch Alliance’s Vulcan Centaur, it never left the ground. The yet-to-fly rocket endured another setback in 2023 when an explosion occurred at the test stand on September 29, causing a significant delay in its development. This incident, involving the Vulcan Centaur V upper stage, was particularly damaging due to the rocket’s already lengthy development process, compounded by delays in receiving engines from Blue Origin. The explosion added further uncertainty to the program, significantly impacting the timeline for Vulcan’s maiden flight, now expected on January 8, 2024. Speaking of not leaving the ground, Boeing’s beleaguered Starliner remained on terra firma for the duration of 2023. The spacecraft, funded under NASA’s commercial crew program, is meant to carry passengers to the International Space Station—something the capsule has yet to do owing to a seemingly endless succession of technical problems. A crewed test flight scheduled for July 21 was postponed due to deficiencies in the parachute system and the discovery of flammable tape used to cover the wiring harnesses inside Starliner. In a dubious milestone, the CST-100 Starliner program passed the $1 billion mark in terms of losses in July (Boeing is working under a fixed price contract, so it’s on the hook for these losses). The first crewed flight of Starliner is now scheduled for April 2024. Among the many headline-stealing stories about spaceflight this year, one particular event, flying under the radar, was perhaps the most important space-related technological breakthrough of 2023. Researchers from the California Institute of Technology beamed solar power from space to Earth without a single wire. It’s a technological first and a breakthrough with profound implications for renewable energy. The experiment potentially paves the way for a new era of clean, consistent, and abundant power sourced directly from space. It could make harnessing the Sun’s energy more efficient, offering a sustainable solution to Earth’s growing energy demands while reducing our dependence on fossil fuels. So yeah, a big deal.  The year opened with tremendous excitement for Virgin Orbit, but by April the Richard Branson-founded company had declared bankruptcy. The “Start Me Up” mission, launching on January 10, was supposed to be the first orbital launch from British soil. Instead, the LauncherOne rocket, having been deployed from a modified Boeing aircraft named Cosmic Girl, failed 30 minutes into the mission—the result of a faulty $100 filter. The anomaly set Virgin Orbit on a path toward its eventual demise, with shareholders quickly losing confidence and the company formally declaring bankruptcy on April 4. As for Branson’s space tourism venture, Virgin Galactic, it did manage to perform two rare missions in 2023, but the company ended the year by laying off 185 staff and pausing operations to focus on the development of its upgraded spaceplane. Despite these setbacks and hurdles, several important  projects did manage to achieve significant milestones in space exploration, scientific research, and technological development.  Amazon’s Project Kuiper finally got off the ground in 2023, launching two prototype satellites to orbit on October 10. The units performed as expected once in space, setting the stage for Amazon and its partners to deploy the entire constellation across 46 launches from now until 2029. Amazon’s Project Kuiper, akin to SpaceX’s Starlink, is designed to deliver fast and affordable broadband internet globally, targeting underserved regions. Several science missions got underway in 2023, including JUICE, the Euclid space telescope, and Psyche. Launched by the European Space Agency in April, JUICE is a mission dedicated to exploring Jupiter’s icy moons, Ganymede, Callisto, and Europa, which are thought to harbor subsurface oceans, making them potentially habitable environments. The Euclid mission, also developed by ESA and launched on July 1, is a space telescope designed to study the universe’s dark matter and dark energy, aiming to understand their influence on the universe’s expansion and the formation of cosmic structures. NASA’s $1 billion Psyche mission, which went up October 13, is focused on the exploration of the asteroid 16 Psyche. This unique asteroid is believed to be the exposed core of an early planet, and it could provide critical insights into the building blocks of planet formation and the early history of our solar system. The U.S. Space Force, working with Firefly Aerospace and Millennium Space, achieved an important goal in 2023 through its Victus Nox mission—a rapid-launch satellite mission. The project involved the rapid preparation of a launch in less than a day, swiftly followed by a successful lift-off. By doing so, the team set a new launch speed record. The Victus Nox mission broke new ground by significantly speeding up satellite deployment, a process that usually takes months or years. This rapid launch capability is crucial for the Space Force, enabling quicker responses to the emerging demands of space operations. Private companies in Europe and China also broke new ground in 2023. Spanish company PLD Space achieved a significant milestone, both for itself and Europe, with the successful suborbital launch of its Miura 1 rocket on October 6. Europe has ways to go when it comes to catching up with SpaceX, Rocket Lab, Blue Origin, and FireFly Aerospace, but this is an encouraging development for its private sector.  On July 12, private Chinese company Landspace launched its Zhuque-2 rocket, making it the first company to successfully send a methane-fueled rocket to orbit. For many rocket companies, including SpaceX, methane represents the propellant of the future, as it offers both efficiency and environmental benefits, particularly in terms of lower carbon emissions and the potential for on-site production on Mars for return missions. Earlier in the year, Chinese company Space Pioneer hit a pair of milestones: On April 12, it became the first startup to successfully reach orbit on its first attempt, while also becoming the first Chinese company to reach orbit with liquid rocket propulsion. NASA’s Lucy probe, en route to visit Jupiter’s Trojan asteroids, managed to swing by an asteroid along the way. As Lucy zipped past Dinkinesh on November 1, it imaged not one but two asteroids—or so it seemed.  Upon further inspection, a third asteroid made an appearance, clinging closely to its newfound partner. NASA said it’s the first direct observation of a contact binary orbiting another asteroid. In 2023, even when things went right, they still found a way to go wrong. On September 24, the OSIRIS-REx spacecraft returned to Earth, dropping off rocky samples collected from asteroid Bennu. The canister, after landing successfully in the Utah desert despite a wonky parachute, was swiftly transported to a NASA lab, where technicians discovered an abundance of materials along the canister exterior. Analysis of these bonus samples revealed materials rich in carbon and also water in the form of hydrated clay minerals—crucial elements in the formation of Earth and possibly the rise of life. Surprisingly, however, the technicians have been unable to open the canister itself and access the bulk of the samples. The culprits are two of 35 fasteners on the TAGSAM (Touch-and-Go Sample Acquisition Mechanism) head, which refuse to bulge with project-sanctioned tools. NASA is now formulating a plan for opening the canister without compromising the integrity of the precious cargo inside. The Moon was not kind to us puny humans in 2023, claiming at least three missions.  Tokyo-based ispace’s attempt to become the first private mission to land on the Moon failed when its lunar lander did not successfully reach the lunar surface on April 25. The company’s Hakuto-R Mission 1 (M1) lander, packed with all sorts of technological goodies, unexpectedly accelerated on its way down before crashing onto the Moon. The ensuing investigation found that a large cliff caused the lander to miscalculate its distance to the surface. From a glass-half-full perspective, the spacecraft did manage to travel deeper into space than any other commercial spacecraft, so there’s at least that to celebrate.  The failure of ispace’s lander was a serious setback, involving the loss of technology and investment and delaying the company’s goal of a successful private lunar landing. This incident significantly impacted investor confidence, but ispace is aiming for a second attempt in 2024. Russia’s Luna-24 was the second lander to crash onto the lunar surface in 2023, doing so on August 19. Luna-24 marked Russia’s first Moon mission attempt in 47 years, highlighting the nation’s lag in lunar exploration. NASA’s Lunar Flashlight, an orbiter designed to study signs of potential water ice on the Moon’s surface, didn’t fare much better. In May, the space agency, after months of trying to resolve an issue with cubesat’s propulsion system, finally gave up, formally ending the mission.  India had much better luck, achieving a significant milestone in 2023 by successfully landing on the lunar surface, marking a historic moment for the country’s space exploration efforts. The Chandrayaan-3 lander and rover successfully performed a soft lunar landing on August 23, positioning India among the elite group of nations that have accomplished this feat. With this achievement, India became the fourth country, after the Soviet Union, the U.S., and China, to land on the Moon and the first to reach the lunar south pole. Chandrayaan-3 did some important scientific work before succumbing to the eventual lunar night, uncovering traces of a volatile element. NASA’s next Artemis mission to the Moon is scheduled for late 2024, and teams spent this year preparing to send humans back to the lunar environment.  The space agency unveiled a prototype Moon suit being developed by Axiom Space, which astronauts will wear during the planned Artemis 3 mission to the surface. Dubbed AxEMU, or Axiom Extravehicular Mobility Unit, it’s the first Moon suit to be developed since the Apollo era. NASA also announced the crew for Artemis 2, in which four astronauts will embark on a historic mission around the Moon, marking the first crewed lunar flyby of the Artemis program. The Artemis 2 crew consists of NASA astronauts Victor Glover, who will serve as pilot for the mission, Christina Koch and Reid Wiseman as mission specialists, and Canadian astronaut Jeremy Hansen as mission commander.  NASA, seeking an alternative to SpaceX’s Moon lander, signed a $3.4 billion contract with Blue Origin. Under this agreement, the Jeff Bezos-founded company will design, develop, and test a crewed lunar lander, known as Blue Moon. But like so many other things on our year-end wrap up, these developments came with a gray lining. NASA officials admitted that the Space Launch System (SLS) rocket, which has already gone $6 billion over budget, is unaffordable. And earlier this month, the Government Accountability Office said Artemis 3 is not likely to happen in 2025 and will slip to at least 2027. So that’s the year  in a nutshell—in this challenging industry, progress is often painstakingly slow and methodically achieved, marked by both triumphs and setbacks. Failures, though disheartening, can serve as necessary stepping stones. In the grand scheme of space exploration, patience and perseverance are not just virtues but necessities, reminding us that the journey to the stars is a marathon, not a sprint. For more spaceflight in your life, follow us on X (formerly Twitter) and bookmark Gizmodo’s dedicated Spaceflight page. 



Title:  Bipartisan Lawmakers Want to Know Why the Hell Apple Is Blocking Beeper Mini 

Apple’s recent move to block Beeper Mini, the app that lets Android users chat with iPhone through the iMessage protocol, has caught the eye and a fair bit of ire of several U.S. congresspeople. Now lawmakers are calling for an investigation into the tech giant over “potential anticompetitive treatment” of the smaller messaging app. On Sunday, Sens Amy Klobuchar and Mike Lee and representatives Jerry Nadler and Ken Buck signed a letter requesting that the Department of Justice’s antitrust division look into whether Apple violated any antitrust laws. The message to Assistant Attorney General Jonathan Kanter says that “interoperability and interconnection have long been key drivers of competition and consumer choice in communications services,” adding that blocking Beeper eliminates consumer choice “and will discourage future innovation and investment in interoperable messaging services.” CBS reporter Jo Ling Kent posted the full letter on Twitter if you’re keen to read yet another antitrust allegation leveled at Apple. Beeper Mini got pretty damn popular pretty damn quickly earlier this month. It allowed Android users to chat with their friends on iPhone without seeing the dreaded green bubbles. More importantly, the app allowed those on Android to send emoji reactions and high-quality images to iMessage, where they couldn’t before. Moreover, the app was noticeably more effective than past attempts to end the blue bubble tyranny since it managed to reverse engineer the iMessage protocol, all while promising users that data was kept secure. Last week, the Cupertino company managed to block the app’s access to the iMessage protocol, claiming—as it usually does—that it wants to “keep personal information safe” and that Beeper was using faked credentials to enter into iMessage’s protected domain. While the Beeper Mini app is still restricted from immediate access, Beeper has tried offering users the same compatibility over email or with an Apple ID. Even still, the company claimed Apple was blocking access to approximately 5% of app users, adding that “it’s super annoying that Apple is penalizing their own customers and Android users who just want secure and encrypted chats. We understand if you choose to uninstall Beeper Mini at this time. Hope to have you back soon.” Beeper CEO Eric Migicovsky testified in front of the Senate’s antitrust subcommittee back in 2021 (not 2015, as the letter proclaims), saying big tech companies were muscling smaller players away from chat services by limiting interoperability. “The simple truth is most users do not use a specific chat app because of its features or benefits: they use it because their friends are on the same app,” Migicovsky said two years ago in front of the Senate subcommittee. “The tech platforms exploit this network effect to build their user base and lock people into using their product.” Last week, Sen. Elizabeth Warren also condemned Apple blocking Beeper, saying, “big tech executives are protecting profits by squashing competitors.” While Apple continues to say it locks down iMessage to keep user chats encrypted and secure, it has been fighting back antitrust claims for years, spending millions on lobbying against any legislative attempt to break up its iPhone hegemony. Google has been looking to force Apple to open up iMessage for years, but that belies that fellow tech giant’s own big anticompetition streak. Unless it’s hit with real regulation either in the U.S. or overseas, Apple will not likely change its tune soon. 



Title:  Updates From Doctor Who and the Future of Avatar 

Twisters screenwriter Mark L. Smith discusses the sequel. A new Percy Jackson clip introduces Grover. Hiding In Time is coming to Amazon. Plus, what’s coming on For All Mankind. Spoilers, away! Elsewhere, Twisters screenwiter Mark L. Smith stated the sequel is “a separate story” and “not a continuation of the original” during a recent interview with Collider.  It’s a lot of fun. [Director Lee Isaac Chung] did his own thing to the script a little bit because that’s what they do, so I don’t know about some of the changes exactly. So, I don’t know the details, but it’s a separate story. It’s not a continuation of the original. But it’s just a real wild ride with some good, fun characters. Hopefully, we can tap into what the original had because that thing is just iconic. But it’s so cool to have a director like Isaac taking on something like this. It’s just so out of his norm, and I think he’s having fun. I was texting with him a couple days ago, and it’s just all craziness of it. James Cameron also revealed there will be a significant time jump between Avatar 3 and 4 during a recent interview with Variety.  We did the [motion capture] capture on three and the live-action photography on three as an intermingled production with [Avatar: The Way of Water], and we even did part of movie four because our young characters are all going to have a big time jump in movie four.  We see them and then we go away for six years and we come back. And so the part where we come back is the part we haven’t shot yet. So we’ll start on that after three is released. The latest recruit to a secret society of magical black people enters a love triangle with the white man he’s supposed to help in the trailer for The American Society of Magical Negroes.  A werwolf motorcycle gang goes to war with a fanatical order of werewolf hunters in the trailer for Hellhounds, coming to digital this January 9.  According to Deadline, Amazon is developing Halcyon, a “sci-fi thriller drama” based on Christopher Long’s graphic novel, Hiding In Time, from Jurassic World director Colin Trevorrow. Created by Richard Smith, the series is described as “a paranoid sci-fi thriller in which the Witness Protection Program relocates families to various eras in time. The series unravels a conspiracy that emerges when this seemingly infallible system is breached.” Deadline also reports Mathhew Arnold (Siberia, Emerald City) is now developing Nowhere at NBC, “a high concept mystery in the vein of Manifest or La Brea with supernatural thriller elements.” The story concerns “a group of individuals who awake to find that all the inhabitants from their remote Vermont town have seemingly vanished overnight. Led by the former sheriff, the remaining citizens embark on a mysterious search for their missing loved ones, uncovering numerous supernatural anomalies along the way.” According to Bloomberg, a Wednesday spinoff series focusing on Fred Armisen as Uncle Fester is now in development at Netflix.  Spoiler TV also has a brief synopsis for “Crossing the Line,” the seventh episode of For All Mankind’s fourth season.  A group on Mars takes drastic measures. Margo grapples with a new assignment. Percy Jackson learns Grover is a satyr in a new clip from Percy Jackson and the Olympians.  Finally, the Doctor meets Ruby Sunday in a new clip from this year’s Doctor Who Christmas special.  Want more io9 news? Check out when to expect the latest Marvel, Star Wars, and Star Trek releases, what’s next for the DC Universe on film and TV, and everything you need to know about the future of Doctor Who.



Title:  Adobe Officially Cancels $20 Billion Figma Acquisition 

Adobe and Figma mutually agreed to end their acquisition plans on Monday after European regulators found the deal would hurt competition in the digital design space. The $20 billion acquisition would have combined the world’s leading product design software, Figma, and the world’s largest and most recognized supplier of design applications, Adobe. “Adobe and Figma strongly disagree with the recent regulatory findings, but we believe it is in our respective best interests to move forward independently,” said Shantanu Narayen, chair and CEO of Adobe, in a Monday press release. Adobe’s Figma acquisition was announced in September of 2022, and the deal has faced plenty of pushback from EU regulators in the last month. Regulators were concerned that a combined Adobe and Figma would create an all-encompassing design ecosystem that would harm competition. The United Kingdom’s antitrust watchdog, the Competition and Markets Authority, was the latest to pump the brakes on the Figma deal, which said the deal would harm innovation and allow Adobe to buy a major competitor. The European Union sent Adobe a “statement of objections” over the deal in November, noting ways the acquisition would “significantly reduce competition in the global markets.” “Going through this process with Shantanu, David and the Adobe team has only reinforced my belief in the merits of this deal, but it’s become increasingly clear over the past few months that regulators don’t see things the same way,” said Dylan Field, co-founder and CEO of Figma. Field went on to say he was disappointed in the outcome. Adobe was unwilling to compromise on the remedies proposed by the United Kingdom’s CMA. Just last week, Adobe responded to the CMA’s objections to its Figma acquisition by calling it “wholly disproportionate.” Adobe argues that its main competitor to Figma is Adobe XD, a software design tool that the company called a “commercial failure.” That argument was shaky, however, as most designers use Adobe products and Figma in their workflow. U.S. regulators were more lenient regarding Adobe’s acquisition of Figma. The Department of Justice met with Adobe executives just last week to secure approval for the merger, reports Politico. The agency was looking into an antitrust lawsuit against Adobe as early as February, but never formally filed a case. Adobe will now pay Figma a $1 billion termination fee that was laid out in the initial terms of the deal “if the transaction fails to receive regulatory clearance.”



Title:  Gizmodo Monday Puzzle: Suss Out Your Team's Average Salary 

Last week, I posed this challenge: You and nine of your coworkers are sitting in a conference room when somebody wonders aloud about the group’s average salary. Everyone is curious, but nobody feels comfortable sharing their own pay with the group. How can you all learn your average salary without anybody learning any more information about another person’s salary (other than what can be deduced from the group average)? You all have pen and paper and can conceal what you write from others, but you have no other tools at your disposal. You may assume that everybody cooperates with the chosen strategy. Number the ten people from 1 to 10. Person one thinks of a random number. It can be positive or negative, but should be large in magnitude. Call the random number r, and the salaries s1, s2, ..., s10. Person one adds their personal salary to their chosen number (r + s1), writes down the result, and slides it upside down to person two. Notice that by looking at the result of r + s1, person two learns nothing about person one’s salary. If they received some random-looking negative 37-digit number, how could they deduce what part of it is r and what part is s1? Person two then adds their salary to the number they received from person one (yielding r + s1 + s2), writes down the result, and slides it face down to person three. Again, person three learns nothing about the previous salaries. They didn’t see r + s1, they only see r + s1 + s2, which looks just as random to them as r itself would.  This process continues around the circle until the paper returns to person one, now containing r + s1 + s2 + s3 + s4 + s5 + s6 + s7 + s8 + s9 + s10.  Person one then subtracts r from the total, yielding just the sum of everybody’s salaries. They divide this by ten and report the average to the group.  Random numbers play an essential role in digital security and privacy in much the same way that they do in this puzzle. Randomly generated numbers can obscure sensitive information in sophisticated ways and allow researchers to rigorously prove properties of their data-protection systems.  I enjoyed reading your creative solutions to this puzzle. There were several variations that I hadn’t considered before. If you’re interested in alternative methods, I encourage you to read last week’s comments! 



Title:  How To Build Your Own Custom ChatGPT Bot 

There’s something new and powerful for ChatGPT users to play around with: Custom GPTs. These bespoke bots are essentially more focused, more specific versions of the main ChatGPT model, enabling you to build something for a particular purpose without using any coding or advanced knowledge of artificial intelligence. The name GPT stands for Generative Pre-trained Transformer, as it does in ChatGPT. Generative is the ability to produce new content outside of what an AI was trained on. Pre-trained indicates that it’s already been trained on a significant amount of material, and Transformer is a type of AI architecture adept at understanding language. You might already be familiar with using prompts to style the responses of ChatGPT: You can tell it to answer using simple language, for example, or to talk to you as if it were an alien from another world. GPTs build on this idea, enabling you to create a bot with a specific personality. What’s more, you can upload your own material to add to your GPT’s knowledge banks—it might be samples of your own writing, for instance, or copies of reports produced by your company. GPTs will always have access to the data you upload to them and be able to browse the web at large. GPTs are exclusive to Plus and Enterprise users, though everyone should get access soon.  OpenAI plans to open a GPT store where you can sell your AI bot creations if you think others will find them useful, too. Think of an app store of sorts but for bespoke AI bots. “GPTs are a new way for anyone to create a tailored version of ChatGPT to be more helpful in their daily life, at specific tasks, at work, or at home—and then share that creation with others,” explains OpenAI in a blog post. “For example, GPTs can help you learn the rules to any board game, help teach your kids math, or design stickers.” Assuming you have a Plus or Enterprise account, click Explore on the left of the web interface to see some example GPTs: There’s one to help you with your creative writing, for example, and one to produce a particular style of digital painting. When you’re ready to start building your own, click Create a GPT at the top. There are two tabs to swap between: Create for building a GPT through a question-and-answer routine and Configure for more deliberate GPT production. If you’re just getting started, it’s best to stick with Create, as it’s a more user-friendly option and takes you step-by-step through the process. Respond to the prompts of the GPT Builder bot to explain what you want the new GPT to be able to do: Explain certain concepts, give advice in specific areas, generate particular kinds of text or images, or whatever it is. You’ll be asked to give the GPT a name and choose an image for it, though you’ll get suggestions for these, too. As you answer the prompts from the builder, the GPT will begin to take form in the preview pane on the right—together with some example inputs that you might want to give to it. You might be asked about specific areas of expertise that you want the bot to have and the sorts of answers you want the bot to give in terms of their length and complexity. The building process will vary though, depending on the GPT you’re creating. After you’ve worked through the basics of making a GPT, you can try it out and switch to the Configure tab to add more detail and depth. You’ll see that your responses so far have been used to craft a set of instructions for the GPT about its identity and how it should answer your questions. Some conversation starters will also be provided. You can edit these instructions if you need to and click Upload files to add to the GPT’s knowledge banks (handy if you want it to answer questions about particular documents or topics, for instance). Most common document formats, including PDFs and Word files, seem to be supported, though there’s no official list of supported file types. The checkboxes at the bottom of the Configure tab let you choose whether or not the GPT has access to web browsing, DALL-E image creation, and code interpretation capabilities, so make your choices accordingly. If you add any of these capabilities, they’ll be called upon as and when needed—there’s no need to specifically ask for them to be used, though you can if you want. When your GPT is working the way you want it to, click the Save button in the top right corner. You can choose to keep it to yourself or make it available to share with others. After you click on Confirm, you’ll be able to access the new GPT from the left-hand navigation pane in the ChatGPT interface on the web. GPTs are ideal if you find yourself often asking ChatGPT to complete tasks in the same way or cover the same topics—whether that’s market research or recipe ideas. The GPTs you create are available whenever you need them, alongside access to the main ChatGPT engine, which you can continue to tweak and customize as needed.



Title:  Avatar's VFX Artists Prepare to Unionize 

2023 has been a union-heavy year, and in the case of Disney, it’s seen the formation of entirely new unions. VFX artists at both Marvel Studios and Disney overall successfully unionized this year, in what some referred to as a “hot labor summer.” Turns out, it’s more of a hot labor year, because the team behind James Cameron’s Avatar movies are aiming to make it three for three.  Earlier in the week, 83 artists at Lightstorm Entertainment filed with the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) to hold a vote to unionize with IATSE (the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees). As noted by IATSE in the press release, Lightstorm’s artists are the first vendor-side team of VFX workers to file with the NLRB. The unionizations at Marvel and Disney were both specifically cited as reasons for this new union, along with last month’s successful unionization at Canadian VFX studio Double Negative. At time of writing, an election date hasn’t been set.  Speaking to IATSE, Lightstorm’s postvis coordinator Patrick DeVaney explained that VFX departments have been “long overdue” in unionizing when the practice is common in every other part of film. And with the stories of overworked VFX artists in the past year, they deserve “the benefits, more equitable pay, and respect that those other departments have earned for themselves through collective bargaining.” Continued environment artist Summer Benton, “Coming together as the Avatar family, we aim to achieve improvements that will help us be able to maintain our highest quality of work in a more sustainable work and keep bringing awe and inspiration to our leadership and to VFX productions everywhere.” “We stand at the cusp of a new era in the VFX industry,” added IATSE president Matthew D. Loeb. “An era where every worker is valued, where their contributions are acknowledged, and their rights fiercely protected. This moment is a beacon for the entire industry.”  Want more io9 news? Check out when to expect the latest Marvel, Star Wars, and Star Trek releases, what’s next for the DC Universe on film and TV, and everything you need to know about the future of Doctor Who.



Title:  Echo's New Trailer Wants to Show You How Hard It Is 

In three weeks time, Marvel’s Echo series will make its way over to Disney+ and Hulu. The big hook of the show isn’t just giving Alaqua Cox’s titular character (and Hawkeye antagonist) a spotlight of her own: unlike the other Disney+ Marvel shows, this one is aiming to be a crunchier, more violent show similar to Daredevil. And whaddya know, it also plans to have the actual Daredevil for at least one fight scene. Set sometime after Hawkeye, which ended with Echo going on the run after resigning from being an enforcer for Kingpin (Vincent D’Onofrio), the show’s newest trailer is clearly evoking the former Netflix series. We got necks snapping, splashes of blood, and people getting the hell beaten out of them—either by Echo’s hands or that of her surrogate daddy. Marvel definitely knows who it’s trying to appeal to in calling this the franchise’s “most intense series yet”—hopefully it takes a page out of Daredevil’s book and fits a one-take hallway fight at some point during its five-episode run Echo will also serve as the launch point for Marvel Studios’ new “Spotlight” banner: for all intents and purposes, it’s a way to justify the show’s individual TV-MA rating while also connecting it to the more PG-13 antics of the standard MCU. Marvel wants “Spotlight” shows to be able to stand on their own two feet, and previously said shows under this banner will have “street-level stakes” and be character-driven, all but confirming Daredevil: Born Again will wind up here as well.  All five episodes of Echo will drop on Disney+ and Hulu on January 9, with the specific time date of 6 PM PT. Look for io9's thoughts on the show closer to its release.  Want more io9 news? Check out when to expect the latest Marvel, Star Wars, and Star Trek releases, what’s next for the DC Universe on film and TV, and everything you need to know about the future of Doctor Who.



Title:  DC's Jungle League is a Team of Damn Heroic Apes 

DC Comics sure likes releasing goofy alternate takes on the Justice League. Last year, they were mech pilots, and not long before that, they were anthropomorphic dinosaurs. Next up on the gimmick list? Why apes, of course! Earlier in the week, the publisher announced Jungle League, which isn’t some spiritual sequel to JLApe: Gorilla Warfare, but an all-ape team consisting of DC’s primate heroes. In this case, our roster consists of Detective Chimp, Gleek from the Wonder Twins (yes, really), Beppo the Super-Monkey, Sam Simeon, and the relatively new Monkey Prince hero. According to the pun-heavy logline, our heroes will be going up against a revived Legion of Doom headed up by Monsieur Mallah, Ultra-Humanite, and other fairly well-known monkey villains from the DC pantheon that have assembled after Gorilla Grodd got himself beaten by the Flash yet again. The Jungle League will be making their debut in a 48-page special to meant to celebrate April Fools, which will feature stories written by Joshua Hale Fialkov, John Layman Gene Luen Yang, with art from Phil Hester, Karl Mostert, and Bernard Chang. To continue on with the ape gimmick, a variant cover by artist Hayden Sherman will be banana scented. The other cover by Chang won’t have a similar scent, but it will be a banana-themed riff on the famous Crisis on Two Earths cover, which you can see below. The Jungle League will make their debut in the pages of the DC Ape-ril Special, which is releasing on March 19, 2024.   Want more io9 news? Check out when to expect the latest Marvel, Star Wars, and Star Trek releases, what’s next for the DC Universe on film and TV, and everything you need to know about the future of Doctor Who.



Title:  Revisiting Rick Flagg in The Suicide Squad 

NO js_post-content class to pull paragrapghs



Title:  How Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King Married Hollywood’s Past and Future 

When The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King released into theaters  December 15, 2003, it had the feel of a significant moment in Hollywood’s trajectory, not only from a cultural standpoint (it became the second-highest grossing blockbuster ever, at the time) but from the standpoint of accelerating Hollywood’s movement toward capitalizing on “franchise IP.” Hollywood, like any industry, is reactive instead of proactive. It’s an industry that leaps to capitalize on something that has worked, and tries to milk it for everything until the well starts to run dry and other market forces take its place to run the cycle again. While the early 2000s did feature other cultural touchstones like The Matrix trilogy, the Harry Potter films, and the Star Wars prequels, it was Peter Jackson’s The Lord of the Rings that had the sort of unanimous consensus of culture—from audiences, critics, awards bodies, and industry titans (James Cameron, Steven Spielberg, and George Miller have all heaped praises on it)—to define the first decade of this century for Hollywood.  Twenty years after the trilogy’s conclusion, the reputation of The Lord of the Rings hasn’t changed much. It’s still beloved, though there is a constant shuffling in the discourse over which of the three movies was the best one. My personal opinions on the matter have certainly changed on it over time in regards to The Fellowship of the Rings and The Two Towers, but I still gravitate toward The Return of the King as my favorite. The last film in a trilogy rarely lives up to expectations, but this was a rare case where Jackson’s conclusion brought forth everything that perfectly coalesced what the first two films were building on. This isn’t a surprise considering the filming of the trilogy happened simultaneously from October 1999 to December 2000 before the films were released in consecutive years. It allowed Jackson and his co-screenwriters Philippa Boyens and Fran Walsh to be able to maintain not only a continuity in the tone of the storytelling, but a continuity of chemistry among the cast and crew. Jackson himself noted in the Return of the King DVD commentary that the production felt like making “the world’s largest home movie” because of “the sense of family and community” on set.  So much of the novelty and quality of old film epics comes from innovation, ingenuity, and craft. From George Méliès’s wondrously elaborate sets and Buster Keaton’s daring stunts, to the meticulously hand-crafted tools and weaponry in Ben-Hur, to the infamous and controversial stories from the sets of Apocalypse Now and Fitzcarraldo, the miracles of cinema are not only in what we see, but in how they were created. With recent news about the impressive practical effects used in Oppenheimer and general lamentations over the loss of film craft in the midst of superhero movies’ overuse of green screen, it’s perhaps another reminder of how influential and impressive the work of world-building—which combined on-location shoots and practical effects with CGI and  motion-capture technology—on Return of the King really was, and how it would go on to define the early 21st century of Hollywood filmmaking. Return of the King is of course famous for how it was filmed in some of the most picturesque locations in New Zealand, but many don’t realize how remote these areas really were. More than 2,000 cast and crew members were spread across remote areas  filming simultaneously, and many had to carry survival kits to hold them over in case helicopters and rescue crews weren’t able to immediately reach them during emergencies because of difficult terrain. Jackson was also extremely particular in the set design, art direction, and costuming of the characters; the trilogy utilized an extensive wardrobe of hand-woven costumes and a warehouse of fully customized accessories that rivaled the detail, care, and volume of great epics of the past.  In a Lord of the Rings oral history released by the Independent in 2021, Grant Major, the Oscar-winning set designer of the trilogy, mentioned how “it took nearly an entire year just to create the Shire. We’d lay out roads, build the houses, all the stone walls, it was really like building a town. We’d grow and replant flowers, make sure the grass was the right length.” According to Dan Hannah, Major’s longtime colleague and the film’s Oscar-winning art director, “Every single piece was our work. The fabrics were homespun, we established our own pottery, we made the glass, the cutlery in Bilbo’s house was all made. There was nothing in the films that wasn’t specifically made.”  This level of detailed craftsmanship wasn’t uncommon in Hollywood’s past, where another great epic, William Wyler’s Ben-Hur, used hand-tooled armor and leather from English craftsmen and Italian designers to make more than 1,000 armored suits and over 100,000 costumes. Likewise, Return of the King’s practical effects also extended to using age-old optical illusion tricks of forced perspective—used as early in cinema as the 1909 short Princess Nicotine, or, The Smoking Fairy and more famously in Safety Last! (1923) and Modern Times (1936)—to allow Gandalf (Ian McKellen) to tower over Hobbits. (In reality, McKellen is only a few inches taller than any of the actors who play the Hobbits.) Similar tricks were used to make Gimli appear smaller than Legolas and Aragorn despite Jonathan Rhys-Davies being three inches taller than both Orlando Bloom and Viggo Mortensen, respectively.  As much as it looked back on Hollywood’s past, Return of the King was a landmark achievement in 21st century film technology. While so many pieces of the film featured real-life locations, other sequences, like Shelob’s Lair (featuring the iconic giant spider)  also utilized detailed studio-set building with special effects. These were used as inclement weather emergency sets and were combined seamlessly with the location sequences. It should be taken as a testament to how practical effects and CGI are not incompatible or exclusive of one another but equal tools in the hands of a filmmaker, studio, and crew who know how to use them well.  One of the greatest claims to fame of Return of the King—and Lord of the Rings in general—is in the motion capture technology used to create Gollum (Andy Serkis). The character blended cutting-edge tech with Serkis’s brilliantly intense physical performance and labored raspy voice, bringing Gollum to life in a startling way. It was so startlingly impressive that it convinced James Cameron that visual effects technology had finally caught up with his ideal vision for Avatar, which would begin production three years after Return of the King’s release. But it’s not only the tech that should be considered influential here. Serkis’s performance is perhaps the single most underrated in the 21st century, from the standpoint of talent and labor. Every scene Serkis essentially had to act three times, once physically in a white suit among his fellow actors to capture the movements of the character, then again in voice-over, then a third time by himself in studio to map the movements for Gollum’s CGI form.  The technological innovations in Return of the King helped form the backbone of blockbuster filmmaking today, but in comparison to the achievements of Jackson and his crew, more recent films can look cheap and unrefined despite using what is considered “better” technology. Something has gone missing. The reason Return of the King, 20 years later, feels like a pivotal moment in Hollywood cinema remains in the ways it maintained the craft and long-haul dedication of filmmaking’s past, while simultaneously embracing the technology of its future. The “franchise IP” label is technically accurate for something like Lord of the Rings, but that doesn’t quite feel right when applied to J.R.R. Tolkien’s literary masterwork. In 2023, Hollywood can seem to churn out even huge expensive productions with little care for detail, only to prompt the creation and anticipation of more “content” for the mill; it’s a far cry from the dedicated and detailed work that went into making Return of the King, finale pored over by dedicated craftsmen who surely sensed they were part of a once-in-a-lifetime achievement.   The release of Amazon’s billion-dollar Lord of the Rings streaming series,  Rings of Power, was met with a generally positive response from critics that were less about whether the show was good and more about the fact that it looked like it was expensive. For audiences, the series may have as well not have been made. It suffered from the same issues as much of today’s media does – it seems disappointingly flat and coldly corporate in execution, capitalizing on nostalgic connections to a beloved IP over really exploring the literature in fun and interesting ways. In other words, it never distinguished itself in a sea of content overload. And it seems the content mill isn’t satisfied yet as David Zaslav’s takeover of Lord of the Rings movie distributor Warner Bros.—and the dispersing of the Lord of the Rings IP rights across a confusing array of holders—included a statement where he believed The Lord of the Rings was “great IP that has been underused”. What an inspiring way to talk about one of the most respected and influential works of Western literature.  There was a feeling even as I sat in the audience and the credits rolled on December 17, 2003 that there would never be anything like this again. Perhaps this is the curse of an achievement this monumental. Like Spielberg’s Jaws, Peter Jackson’s The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King set a high mark for the industry; it was both a turning point and a signal for the future of Hollywood, as well as a reminder that the past can be a valuable tool in shaping even the most cutting-edge blockbuster.  Want more io9 news? Check out when to expect the latest Marvel, Star Wars, and Star Trek releases, what’s next for the DC Universe on film and TV, and everything you need to know about the future of Doctor Who.



Title:  One Piece is Getting an Anime Remake (No, Seriously) 

Months after the live-action adaptation of the popular manga/anime One Piece released, Netflixis doing...an anime remake of One Piece. Really.  Revealed at Jump Festa 2024, the remake—titled The One Piece, so as to make clear it’s not like the other two shows titled One Piece—will start off with the “East Blue” saga that the live-action show just finished partially adapting for its debut season. So what is new about this remake? Thus far, just the team behind it: WIT Studio, currently known for Spy x Family, will be the one bringing the series to life again rather than longtime studio Toei. Will this new One Piece find a way to incorporate the Toei voice actors as the live-action show did? Guess we’ll eventually find out.  In a press release, Netflix and WIT promised The One Piece will be distinct from the Toei anime and stand on its own feet. Because the original anime is so long—at time of writing, it just started season 21 and is nearing 1,100 episodes—the aim is to help newcomers get over that admittedly big hump. That, and “provide viewers with a fresh yet familiar experience, utilizing cutting-edge visual technology to reimagine Luffy’s adventures through the beloved East Blue saga.” Prior to this, Netflix revealed at Jump Fest that it’s also releasing a One Piece prequel in Monsters, which tells the story of a famous swordsman named Ryuma and is set to drop in January 2024. Between that, season two of the live-action One Piece, and now The One Piece, it may be that we’re getting too much of Eiichiro Oda’s pirates with little time to really breathe. Even if none of these will release in the same time frame, that they’re tackling similar material will likely be weird for those not in the loop, not helped by the fact that they’re only distinguished by a single word.  The One Piece will hit The Netflix in the near future. [via Variety]  Want more io9 news? Check out when to expect the latest Marvel, Star Wars, and Star Trek releases, what’s next for the DC Universe on film and TV, and everything you need to know about the future of Doctor Who.



Title:  Orphan May Get Adopted a Third Time 

Nearly 15 years ago, Jaume Collet-Serra’s Orphan released in theaters. Unlike other horror films involving a seemingly sweet young child, the twist of their dark tendencies was considerably more straightforward, Isabella Fuhrman’s nine-year-old Esther wasn’t possessed by a demon or a conduit to hell, she was in reality a woman named Leena with a rare genetic disorder that stunted her growth, and she’s spent years posing as a little girl and killing people to cover up her secret.  It wasn’t until 2022 that we got a follow-up in the prequel movie Orphan: First Kill, but it sounds like we may not be done with the sort of franchise quite yet. In a recent interview with the Hollywood Reporter, First Kill director William Brent Bell told the outlet that he believed there was enough murderous gas in the tank to warrant an Orphan 3. To him, the series can have “so many variations” because by design, Esther offers more creative freedom than franchises with masked killers. “She’s a real character,” Bell remarked. “There are so many directions to go, and we’re developing a third one now.” While nothing is set in stone yet, he did point out that Fuhrman would be game to reprise her role as Esther, so that’s something.  Bell recalled how he recently met back up with First Kill writer David Coggeshall, who told him that he enjoyed writing the prequel because of its freedom. “You get to kind of do anything,” said Bell of the films, adding “the rulebook has been opened up to where anything is possible.” He also brought up the original film’s co-writer, David Leslie Johnson, who once told him an Orphan movie “has to have the twist.” It sounds like the third one’s got some twists on hand—what they are, Bell obviously kept quiet, but he teased that he was “extremely excited” about what could be in store.  Orphan: First Kill is viewable over on Paramount+. Bell’s next film, Lord of Misrule, is available to rent on Prime Video. Want more io9 news? Check out when to expect the latest Marvel, Star Wars, and Star Trek releases, what’s next for the DC Universe on film and TV, and everything you need to know about the future of Doctor Who.



Title:  Obituary: Godzilla Suit Actor Kenpachiro Satsuma Has Passed Away 

Japanese actor Kenpachiro Satsuma died earlier today, according to a translated post from Matomedane, from what’s said to be interstitial pneumonia. The 76-year-old actor is best known for portraying various monsters during Godzilla’s Heisei era, including the lead monster himself. Satsuma was born May 27, 1947 under the name Yasuaki Maeda. He started acting in the 1960s in bit parts for movies like Incident at Blood Pass. In 1971, he made his debut in the monster movie scene with Godzilla vs. Hedorah, where he played the latter monster. He would then go on to be the suit actor for Gigan in Godzilla vs. Gigan the following year, along with 1973's Godzilla vs. Megalon and the tokusatsu series Zone Fighter.  In 1972, Godzilla’s then-actor (and original) Haruo Nakajima retired. Following a number of substitutes for the next two years, Satsuma took over the role with 1984's The Return of Godzilla. This film was both a direct sequel to the original 1954 movie and a reboot that junked everything from the last 30 years worth of sequels, then known as the Shōwa era. Return was a darker movie on par with the original Godzilla and returned him to an antagonist role rather than a force for good who would protect humans and fight other monsters. Satsuma would continue playing Godzilla from 1989's Godzilla vs. Biollante up until 1995's Godzilla vs. Destroyah, during which he’d regularly pass out while wearing the suit due to alack of oxygen. He highlighted vs. Destroyah as the worst culprit of this, once saying in the late 90s that he “could see the gates of Hell several times!” Outside of the Godzilla movies, Satsuma continued to take on roles in films like Hong Kil-dong and Japanese Hell. One of the most notorious is the 1985 North Korean kaiju film Pulgasari, based on the lost 1962 film Bulgasari (which is believed to be the first-ever Korean kaiju movie). The new film was directed by South Korean filmmaker Shin Sang-ok, who was kidnapped in 1978 along with his wife Choi Eun-hee by supreme leader Kim Jong Il to make fantasy/propaganda films for North Korea. During production, Kim flew in the Japanese SFX team for the Godzilla films, Satsuma included; the actor (who’d go to play on Pulgasari) and the other members were under the impression they were brought on for a film that was shooting in China. Years later, Satsuma admitted that he preferred Pulgasari to Hollywood’s Godzilla, specifically the 1998 movie from director Roland Emmerich. Per IMDB, Satsuma’s final roles were in 2001's Blind Beast vs. Dwarf and 2002's Kawana Mariko: Sakuragi no amai mizu. Our thoughts go out to his family at this time.  Want more io9 news? Check out when to expect the latest Marvel, Star Wars, and Star Trek releases, what’s next for the DC Universe on film and TV, and everything you need to know about the future of Doctor Who.



Title:  Voyager 1 Is Glitching Out and More Top Science News of the Week 

Space is hard, as the cliché reminds us, and that was plenty clear this week, as several groups ran into trouble: NASA with its aging Voyager 1 spacecraft, AstroForge with a struggling debut mission to prove asteroid mining can work, and a few missing-in-action satellites from a recent SpaceX launch. Back on Earth, doctors issued a dire warning against holding in a sneeze. - Rose Pastore NASA’s iconic space probe is having trouble communicating with its home planet due to a computer glitch, forcing engineers to resort to decades-old manuals to come up with a way to fix the 46-year-old mission. - Passant Rabie Read More Space is an inky black yonder... but for the countless light sources that pepper the billions of light-years that human instruments can see. Thanks to ground-based telescopes and  observatories parked millions of miles from Earth, 2023 has been a terrific year for space imagery. Astronomers captured fascinating new views of globular clusters, star systems, and even the planets in our own cosmic backyard. Click through to see our favorite space images from this year. - Isaac Schultz Read More Some train track circuits are at the mercy of distant storms on the Sun’s surface, researchers found, which could cause train signals to jump from red to green and vice versa as a result of extreme space weather. - Isaac Schultz Read More Since launching its first test mission to vaporize bits of an asteroid in space, AstroForge has struggled to keep a hold of its spacecraft and is now at risk of losing the ability to send commands to the in-orbit demonstration. - Passant Rabie Read More New research shows that tirzepatide, the latest FDA-approved obesity drug, really can help people lose substantial amounts of weight—but only if they continue taking it. The study found that people who stopped taking tirzepatide after 36 weeks regained much of their lost weight within a year, while those who continued to take it lost even more, about 25% of their original weight on average. - Ed Cara Read More Among the over 100 satellites that launched on board SpaceX’s Transporter-9 mission, three failed to deploy and their current whereabouts are unknown. - Passant Rabie Read More Good news, everyone! Scientists discovered additional evidence suggesting the potential habitability of a peculiar icy moon orbiting Saturn, one of the planet’s 146 moons. - Passant Rabie Read More Here’s a scary lesson about why you shouldn’t hold in your sneezes. In a case report this month, doctors in the UK describe a man in his 30s who tore open his windpipe by holding his nose and mouth closed while sneezing—apparently the first documented instance of such an injury. Though the man did have to spend some time in the hospital, he fortunately made a speedy recovery. - Ed Cara Read More If you’re irritated by the morning people in your life, you might have Neanderthals to blame for their existence, at least a little bit. New research suggests that our hominin relatives possessed genetic variations that predisposed them to waking up early and that they passed on these genes to our Homo sapiens ancestors through interbreeding. The study also found evidence that some people today still carry that genetic legacy with them. - Ed Cara Read More



Title:  Jason Momoa Basically Says It's Momover, His Aquaman May Be Cooked 

Next week sees the release of Aquaman & the Lost Kingdom, DC’s final movie of 2023. The original 2018 film was a billion-dollar hit, but the sequel feels like is occupying this weird space where it feels like it should’ve been out by now, or is farther away than it seems. Either way, if you were wondering about the future of the character, it sounds like the writing’s already on the wall. “It’s not looking too good,” Jason Momoa told Entertainment Tonight. The outlet asked him about the chances of showing up in James Gunn’s new universe of DC movies, and he was candid about the currently slim chances of returning as the Atlantean. “I don’t necessarily want it to be the end,” he admitted, adding that things may change if audiences take a shine to the film and it does well at the box office. Even so, he acknowledged that things are basically out of his hands at this point.  With it being known that Gunn and Peter Safran are starting up the DC movies again with Superman: Legacy in 2025, that knowledge has hung over Shazam 2, The Flash, and Blue Beetle. That’s not the only reason audiences didn’t show up for those films, but you can imagine the general knowledge that these flicks are semi-inconsequential isn’t exactly encouraging in the leadup to their individual releases.  Momoa used the interview to wax poetic about his time as Aquaman, calling his ability to change the public perception of the hero “a really hard goddamn thing to do. I love this character and [I would want to] play it for a long time,” he said. Along with his general interest in seeing where else he could take the character, he loved getting to use the solo movie as an opportunity to grow Aquaman from his Justice League debut. “It’s fun just to just be the reluctant king and then getting past all of his ego, and [seeing him] realizing what he’s meant to do.” Should he have his way, Momoa does hope to pop up in the new DC universe somehow, and not just as the King of the Seas. “If there’s a place in their world for me, I would love to be a part of it,” he continued. “Warner and DC is definitely my home.” Aquaman & the Lost Kingdom hits theaters next week on December 22.  Want more io9 news? Check out when to expect the latest Marvel, Star Wars, and Star Trek releases, what’s next for the DC Universe on film and TV, and everything you need to know about the future of Doctor Who.



Title:  Did Animation Take Its 'Next Step' in 2023? 

In mid-March during the Oscars, Netflix’s Pinocchio took home the award for Best Animated Feature. During his acceptance speech, co-director Guillermo del Toro said the animation medium was ready to be taken to “the next step,” a statement that was meant to be inspiring after animation was belittled at that very ceremony just minutes prior. The category presenters were dismissive of animation overall, basically calling it kiddie fare that parents have to suffer through just to shut their kids up. That kind of joke would already be rude even if animation wasn’t the one arm of entertainment to not be noticeably affected by the pandemic, but what made it sting all the more is that 2022 just wasn’t kind to the animation industry. Between shows getting canceled without any discernable reason, projects being scrapped mid-production, and things getting yanked off streaming services, getting insulted at an awards ceremony wasn’t exactly fun. Del Toro’s words, later echoed in an essay by Phil Lord and Chris Miller, were a declaration that the animation space deserved more respect. Throughout 2023, I’ve been wondering about what “the next step” tangibly looks like when shows and films take so long to be developed and come out, but surprisingly, the universe had an an answer to that question.  In the same way that 2023 has been an incredible year for video games as a product, the same is true of animation. Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse was a thrilling (albeit shaky) sequel to the 2018 juggernaut that was one  of many animated standouts. This year really felt like studios were more than willing to walk away from the tried-and-true realism that Disney and Pixar made into the gold standard in favor of getting a little more experimental and weird. Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem had a similarly unconventional look as the Spider-Verse movies, but in a rougher, grosser way that felt right at home with the mutated creatures and youthful energy of its constantly amped-up terrapins.  Similarly, Illumination’s Super Mario Bros. managed to bring one of the oldest gaming franchises to cinematic life and make it feel new, which is an impressive feat unto itself. Whatever else you can say about the film, it looks fantastic, and its success was so big it inspired Nintendo to start eyeing other games for adaptation And while they’re not movies, Disney+’s two anthology series, Star Wars Visions and Kizazi Moto: Fire Generation, shake up their animation styles with each respective episode in ways that are informed by the sensibilities and regional histories of the creators making them. There was a greater range of diversity of western animated series this year, and the new stuff absolutely hit alongside existing favorites like Star Trek: Lower Decks or Legend of Vox Machina. Sci-fi fans had Scavengers Reign and Fired on Mars: the former was so scary and so excellent it feels like it beamed in from another universe, while Fired easily became the new inheritor of the mantle of low stakes, slice-of-life animation previously held by King of the Hill. Superheroes got to have some fun breaking out of boundaries, as well: My Adventures with Superman delivered a fun spin on superheroes by going all-in on being a romcom with a lot more confidence than cape shows usually allow; meanwhile, Moon Girl & Devil Dinosaur was a delightfully charming series the likes of which Marvel hasn’t fully had since Avengers: Earth’s Mightiest Heroes a decade ago. Adult animation often gets forced into being cartoonishly crass or violent (sometimes both), but steps were taken to bring some nuance to the space. It’s never a question of just how violent Netflix’s Blue Eye Samurai can get—the answer to that is just “yes”—but the show is also pretty intentional with how and when it deploys sex beyond just titillation. Those sex scenes are as basic as an HBO show still finding its footing, but they take themselves and the characters involved as seriously as the show does with the fight scenes. There’s a similar thoughtfulness present in Castlevania: Nocturne’s handling of race and sexuality with characters like Anette and Olrox that makes the larger show so much stronger, because you can tell the creators put the work in to make the races of these characters be informed by the time period—and how that reflects their standing in the world. Scott Pilgrim Takes Off may not be as violent or raunchy as those other Netflix shows, but it was considerate in examining the legacy of its own source material and what relationships look like from both ends of a breakup.  Combined with some pretty fun anime throughout the year like Mobile Suit Gundam: The Witch from Mercury and original animation like Lackadaisy and The Amazing Digital Circus getting wide recognition, it’d be safe to say that animation reached a new high in 2023, right? Well, yes and no; while everything above was pretty great and worth checking out, the larger boom this year is undermined by the fact that the creation and treatment of many of these was absolute hell on those involved. Spider-Verse burned away a lot of its goodwill with crunch and overwork allegations, as did Studio MAPPA for the second season of Jujutsu Kaisen and other shows it released this year. Equally bad is that overwork is now being touted (jokingly or not) as a necessary evil, as signs of it aren’t evident in the final product itself in some way. Studios also need to get better at marketing what they have. Disney didn’t really know what to do with Elemental until South Korea took a shine to it and boosted its box office, after which the studio actually started highlighting the film’s immigrant story in tandem with its love story. It’s a larger problem across movies overall, but felt particularly heightened this year even before the strikes threw a wrench into things. Frankly, Elemental got lucky South Korea was so into it, because it otherwise would’ve suffered the same fate as DreamWorks’ underperforming Ruby Gillman, Teenage Kraken, which released two weeks later. But both of these points are extensions of a larger issue that del Toro, Lord, and Miller all gave their thoughts on earlier this year: animation really does deserve more respect than it presently gets. And for that to happen, it needs high-level people in each company who won’t turn their backs when original works (that likely weren’t well-supported to begin with) fizzle out because they didn’t grow into themselves immediately—or keep pulling the sequel lever and ordering new installments of well-worn titles. Those are seemingly tall orders for all creative industries right now, and they won’t be fixed right away. But with the industry potentially looking at a strike, in a year that showed Hollywood unions can bring about concrete improvements for their members, it’s clear that change is overdue. The next step for animation can’t really come until the process isn’t killing the people working on it.  Want more io9 news? Check out when to expect the latest Marvel, Star Wars, and Star Trek releases, what’s next for the DC Universe on film and TV, and everything you need to know about the future of Doctor Who.



Title:  Kingdom of the Planet of the Apes Is a Blast to the Future 

20th Century Fox’s Planet of the Apes reboot films re-introduced the world to the dystopian sci-fi series. Led by Andy Serkis as the first hyperintelligent ape Caesar, the trilogy ended with such a finality you don’t usually get with franchises, and ensured that if more films did happen, they’d have to jump forward in time a good amount.  As it turns out, 20th Century did jump forward in time: the upcoming Kingdom of the Planet of the Apes is set 300 years after the ending of 2017's War for the Planet of the Apes. Speaking to Empire Magazine, director Wes Ball explained that the time jump both puts distance between this and the original reboot and allows for Caesar’s legacy to have been partially lost in the generations since. For this new film, our point of view character is Noa (played by Owen Teague), who has no clue whatsoever who Caesar is. And as he ends up trying to establish a better future for apes and humans alike, his story will involve “a discovery of that legacy and its various interpretations,” explained Ball. “Noa has to make sense of what it all means.” What remains of Caesar’s message in the present day has been twisted by the likes of Proximus, the crown-wearing monkey seen at the end of Kingdom’s trailer. Played by Kevin Durand, Proximus runs an ape clan on the coast and took Caesar’s name as his own because of how much weight it carries. That name-jacking, said Durand, was a “self-proclamation” done by Proximus as a means to further his people’s evolution. “Like in every morsel of human history,” he noted, “there’s always some type of tyrant who comes along and scares everyone into believing them.” Durand called the two ape leads “the influence and the evolution” of Caesar, and the plan is to explore that across its own (presumably Noa-led) trilogy. Ball was upfront in saying as such, talking about the “grand idea” of future movies and where things can go. In referring to the first three movies “the end of something,” he and the studio are aiming for this to be a new beginning. “We thought, ‘From the ashes of those previous movies, we’re gonna grow a new tree to climb.’”  Kingdom of the Planet of the Apes hits theaters on May 24, 2024.  Want more io9 news? Check out when to expect the latest Marvel, Star Wars, and Star Trek releases, what’s next for the DC Universe on film and TV, and everything you need to know about the future of Doctor Who.



Title:  The Cait Corrain Review Controversy Explained, and More Top Pop Culture News of the Week 

Somehow fans of Star Wars’ Kylo Ren and Rey Skywalker made the news for very different reasons this week. But outside of big drama in the sci-fi book world, we also got the last of Doctor Who’s anniversay specials, a new Dune Part Two trailer, and more in the list of our most read stories, so here’s you might have missed this week!—James Whitbrook Late last week, the fantasy/sci-fi book scene found itself in disarray following allegations of an author review bombing several other authors in the community. The end result has seen writer Cait Corrain lose her deal with Del Rey Publishing, and other partnerships she had in the works also canceled. - Justin Carter Read More Christopher Eccleston has had a long road of private and publicly processing his time on Doctor Who—for many years, the actor simply refused to talk about why, having helped turn the series into a sensation when it returned in 2005, he left and never looked back. But, while still largely reserved, Eccleston is now more open about his experience than ever—and clearer about what it’d take for him to return. - James Whitbrook Read More Alex Garland has written or directed several excellent, terrifying, disturbing films. Films like 28 Days Later, Sunshine, Ex Machina and Annihilation. Films that show familiar worlds in unfamiliar, and often times unfathomable, circumstances. His new film seems as if it’s going to do that too, but it’s somehow much scarier than all of those combined. Because, well, the dystopia feels a little too real. - Germain Lussier Read More The Last Starfighter is Hollywood’s white whale. The 1984 film about a young man who is recruited to defend a planet because of his video game skills was decades ahead of its time and, in recent years, has been the frequent subject of speculation and excitement. It seems everyone in Hollywood has attempted to bring the story back to life and there’s even been talk, and development, of a possible sequel that would do just that. - Germain Lussier Read More It’s certainly disappointing that Dune: Part Two isn’t in theaters right now but sometimes waiting is the best part. Case in point, today we’ve been graced with a brand new trailer, and it’ll make you somehow even more excited for the sequel than you already are. Which is really saying something. - Germain Lussier Read More Although the X-Men have been returning to the world of Lego in fits and starts recently—a few characters in the Marvel minifigures line here, a giant Wolverine fist there—2014 was the last time Marvel’s mutants actually got to star in a more traditional Lego set. That’s now changing... but it’s not an entirely joyous turn of events. - James Whitbrook Read More We love toys here at io9, and when we’re not writing about them, we’re probably playing with them. It’s been a killer year for cool nerdy collectibles, so here’s just a few of our favorite things we picked up in the proverbial toy aisle this past year. - James Whitbrook and Germain Lussier Read More For a show that is often so optimistically forward thinking—and where change is baked into its hearts—Doctor Who often has a bittersweet view of its own past. Heroes and friends come and go, goodbyes are frequent and brief, and a lot of them are permanent, especially when part of the key to its longevity is that its main character dies every few years. But as a wise Time Lord once said, every once in a while, just occasionally, everybody lives. - James Whitbrook Read More io9 chats with Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny director James Mangold about a particular Indy 5 chase scene. As if the movies themselves didn’t make it more than obvious, fans have long come to understand that the Star Wars sequel trilogy changed drastically throughout development. Multiple writers and directors worked on The Force Awakens as well as The Rise of Skywalker, sometimes with radically different results, while The Last Jedi stayed true to itself in between, with even more polarizing results. - Germain Lussier Read More Want more io9 news? Check out when to expect the latest Marvel, Star Wars, and Star Trek releases, what’s next for the DC Universe on film and TV, and everything you need to know about the future of Doctor Who.



Title:  The Best Gadgets of 2023 

2023 offered up another exciting year in the world of consumer electronics, delivering meaningful upgrades to some of our already-favorite gear of last year, as well as some pleasant surprises. Apple released MacBooks with powerful new silicon, and the iPhone 15 was a worthwhile upgrade. Google made a phone that uses AI to take better pictures no matter how uncooperative your subject is. This year also saw more companies attempt to usurp the Steam Deck OLED as the king of handheld gaming PCs. Some of the year’s best gadgets took a more refreshing analog approach to design. Teenage Engineering’s stunning pocket microphone and recorder reminded us there’s beauty in simplicity.  It was a good year for gizmos, doodads, and gadgets; we’ve highlighted the ones we really loved and that we think will add a little fun to your day. 



Title:  Meta Ray-Bans Hate Your Outfit, PlayStation 5 Pro Rumors, and More Top Product News of the Week 

If you ever wanted help picking out an outfit, Meta just rolled out a beat for its Ray-Ban Smart Glasses that’ll give you fashion advice based on what’s in your closet. Meanwhile, the Apple and Beeper Mini messaging saga took a dramatic turn. Gizmodo covered all this news and more, and you can catch up with our weekly roundup. - Jorge Jimenez Meta’s long-promised AI-enabled vision features for the company’s Ray-Ban Smart Glasses are finally incoming, allowing the onboard AI to see, hear, and interpret its environment through the glasses’ 12 MP camera and microphone. The company proclaimed late Tuesday that these new AI-vision features are now available in beta. There’s a whole lot of utility for a mobile AI that can see and hear, but leave it to Meta’s leadership to show off the new feature in the most awkward and trite way possible. - Kyle Barr Read More Just how fast do you need your home internet to be? More importantly, how much are you willing to fork over to Google each month to turn your home into a miniature data center? According to Google, the answer is an eye-gouging $250 a month plus fees for blistering 20-Gig speeds on a WiFi 7-enabled, plus-sized router. - Kyle Barr Read More GM sounds like it’s not going to budge regarding its decision to replace Apple CarPlay and Android Auto with its in-house infotainment system on its future electric vehicles. The only difference is that it’s making it about safety this time. - Dua Rashid Read More There are plenty of things to like about the latest iOS 17.2 update. For one, iPhone 15 Pro users are getting telephoto camera improvements and can finally use the titanium-shelled hardware to shoot spatial videos for the Vision Pro. There’s also a new Action button shortcut for real-time translation. But the most helpful bit of this software update is the official debut of Apple Journal, which comes just in time for the emotionally challenging holiday season. Journal can help keep all those inner thoughts you write out shielded from the people you want to avoid peeking over. - Florence Ion Read More Apple isn’t keen to let just any peasant enter its hallowed and gloried domain of iMessage. The company officially declared it had blocked the Beeper Mini app, which let Android users send blue bubble messages to their friends and family on iPhone by reverse engineering the iMessage protocol. - Kyle Barr Read More A wave of rumors has engulfed Sony’s premiere fish tail-shaped console, with speculation centering on an upcoming PS5 Pro next year with a beefed-up CPU and GPU supposed to help it swim above any of the other prominent consoles currently on the market. - Kyle Barr Read More Apple just redesigned its Apple TV app and brought a couple of features that should have been there a long time back. With the overall aim of making the streaming service  easier to navigate, it already looks much more organized and intuitive. - Dua Rashid Read More In a recent internal summit, Google proposed its next big idea: an AI-powered feature titled ‘Project Ellmann’ that would provide users with a snapshot or, as they’re calling it, a “bird’s eye view” of their entire lives. - Dua Rashid Read More The curse of all writing is not necessarily a distraction, but the anxiety stemming from creating something you know is awful. Writing is undoubtedly a painful, twisted joy until you read your work and wonder if you ever had a bare ounce of creativity.  - Kyle Barr Read More



Title:  ‘It’s Always Important to Remember Death’: Joel Kinnaman on For All Mankind 

NO js_post-content class to pull paragrapghs



Title:  How One Piece Creator Eiichiro Oda Gave Notes for the Netflix Show 

From casting to the cutting room, One Piece creator Eiichiro Oda collaborated closely with the team behind Netflix’s live-action series adaptation of his beloved tale every step of the way. io9 recently chatted with series editor Eric Litman (Agents of SHIELD) about how the show crafted its take on the motley crew of young misfit pirates. Guided by Oda, Litman worked on shaping the structure of the series in its first-act  character arcs. We meet Monkey D. Luffy (Iñaki Godoy) as he’s beginning his quest to be Pirate King, and the core members of his Straw Hat Pirates crew as they explore the Grand Line in search of the mythical treasure known as the “One Piece.”  “I was given episodes three and four, directed by Emma Sullivan, and I couldn’t be more thrilled about that,” Litman said. He had been potentially planning on joining the series since 2019, when his Agents of SHIELD colleague and One Piece co-showrunner Matt Owens reached out to him—so Litman had a good time frame to prepare. “When I was taking the meetings, we were still kind of deep in in the pandemic. I was able to go and watch some of the anime on Netflix and I loved it. I thought it was great... but I really tried to read a lot of the manga, which is what the show is really based on.” Litman went on to become one of three editors to work on the series’ pilot episode, marking the start of his experience taking notes directly from Oda. “We received notes from Oda once the episodes were done and he was very happy with everything. He gave us really great constructive [and] really interesting notes,” Litman said.  One task Litman and his team faced was finding ways to incorporate details from each character’s backstory—no small feat, since the One Piece anime has hundreds of episodes full of lore. “We had a lot of scenes in there that were great scenes. And they were they were scripted and shot and cut in a linear fashion,” Litman shared about the episodes that introduce Usopp and give us more backstory on Zoro. “So just one scene after another, and the performances were terrific. They just took a lot of time to get through that stuff—in particular Kaya and Usopp’s episode three, when Kaya is talking to Nami about her love for Usopp, and same thing for Usopp talking to Luffy and Zora, where he’s hiding his love for Kaya. But we both know that they love each other.” He continued. “It was just a great sequence of scenes, but they just took a long time to get through. And we got a note [from Oda] that said, ‘Hey, is there a way to intercut? Is that possible to do?’ And to Matt and [co-showrunner Steven Maeda]’s credit, they were very gracious in allowing the editors to hear the broad stroke notes.” Litman was then given time to figure out how to intercut the scenes. “We were able to we change a line here, change a line there to make it into a question-answer sequence. We were able to intercut those sequences and then we would figure it out, the structure to do all that. And we presented it to the producer, to the showrunners, and they just loved it and they were really happy.” One Piece season one is now streaming on Netflix. Want more io9 news? Check out when to expect the latest Marvel, Star Wars, and Star Trek releases, what’s next for the DC Universe on film and TV, and everything you need to know about the future of Doctor Who.



Title:  We Finally Saw That Missing Space Tomato and Wish We Hadn't 

For a year, a rogue tomato was missing in action on board the International Space Station (ISS), sparking rumors that an astronaut may have eaten it during a moment of weakness. It turns out that there were actually two missing tomatoes, not just one, found squished in a tiny ziplock bag, and they’re looking a little rough tbh. NASA shared an update on the case of the missing tomatoes on Thursday, releasing a photo of the retrieved ziplock bag containing the “dehydrated and slightly squished” tomatoes that still have “no visible microbial or fungal growth,” the space agency wrote. Although a lot went into finding the tomatoes, they were thrown away and will not be coming home for analysis on Earth. The tomatoes were a part of NASA’s Veg-05 experiment, a project focusing on growing fruits and vegetables in space. In 2022, NASA astronaut Frank Rubio harvested the tomatoes and put them in a little bag. “I was pretty confident that I velcroed it where I was supposed to velcro it and then I came back and it was gone,” Rubio said during a recent interview. “I spent probably 8 to 20 hours of my own time looking for that tomato. I wanted to find it mostly so I could prove that I did not eat the tomato.” Rubio denied claims that he ate the tomato, but that didn’t stop his crew mates from playfully accusing him of enjoying a light snack while working on board the space station. The mystery was finally solved, however, when NASA astronaut Jasmin Moghbeli revealed during a livestream on December 6 that the tomato had finally been found. “Our good friend Frank Rubio, who headed home [on September 27], has been blamed for quite a while for eating the tomato. But we can exonerate him. We found the tomato,” Moghbeli said. Rubio spent a record-breaking 371 days on board the ISS, and yet he still didn’t find the tomato during his long sting in low Earth orbit. “Hopefully somebody will find it someday, some little shriveled up thing in a ziplock bag,” Rubio said after returning home. They certainly did, but the rogue tomatoes were immediately discarded, according to NASA. The Veg-05 experiment used the space station’s Veggie facility to grow dwarf tomatoes, studying the impact of light quality and fertilizer on the growth of fruit, its microbial food safety, nutritional value, and how it tastes.  For more spaceflight in your life, follow us on X (formerly Twitter) and bookmark Gizmodo’s dedicated Spaceflight page.



Title:  Everything You Need to Remember About Aquaman Before The Lost Kingdom 

When people think of the DC films of the past several years, they mostly think of the failures. The controversies. What they don’t usually think of are the successes, of which there were many, and none more so than Aquaman. James Wan’s 2018 film starring Jason Momoa, Amber Heard, Nicole Kidman, Willem Dafoe, Patrick Wilson, Dolph Lundgren, Yahya Abdul-Mateen II, and Temuera Morrison (what a cast!) grossed over $1.1 billion at the box office, making it the highest-grossing DC film ever. Including all the Batman movies! That said, you’d think there would be more excitement that, next week, its sequel is finally arriving. Aquaman and the Lost Kingdom has been a long wait, but it brings back virtually everyone from the original film, including Wan, who time and time again has proved himself to be one of our most masterful blockbuster filmmakers.  Before Lost Kingdom hits theaters on December 22 you can, a) rewatch Aquaman, which we highly recommend (it’s streaming on Max), or b) give us a few clicks here where we’ll catch you up with the pertinent information needed.



Title:  Grok Gets Some Competition, ChatGPT Gets Depressed, and More of the Top AI News Stories This Week 

What happened with AI this week? Well, the passage of the European Union’s AI Act—a landmark piece of regulation that seeks tackle the potential harms of the AI industry—is a pretty big deal. It could totally reshape how European nations’ relationship to the technology. But a lot of less consequential if no less weird and entertaining stuff happened this week. The French AI startup Mistral released a new large language model and it’s apparently pretty good. Elon Musk’s baby momma (Grimes) may be working on a new plush doll named after Grok, Musk’s annoying AI chatbot. A British court decided that it’s totally cool for a software program to make legal rulings. People are using AI programs to talk to the dead and some researchers think that ChatGPT actually suffers from “seasonal depression.” In short: regulations or not, the AI industry is definitely going to keep making things weird for everybody for the foreseeable future.



Title:  50 Years Ago Today, Sarah Jane Smith Changed Doctor Who Forever 

Fifty years ago, Doctor Who’s 11th season began with “The Time Warrior” and  brought with it a notable sea of changes. It marked the debut of the show’s iconic “diamond” logo, which has now seen a return for the modern era with Ncuti Gatwa’s Doctor. It added an immediately iconic creature to the show’s monster canon in the Sontarans. But its most lasting contribution, and its greatest, will forever be Sarah Jane Smith. From the moment we meet Sarah Jane in the first episode of “The Time Warrior,” she’s fighting for a place in a world that doesn’t want her around. Using her skills as an investigative reporter—and her aunt’s credentials and identity—she slinks into a secret lockdown of scientists by UNIT, looking into a spate of disappearances. She immediately finds herself in the Doctor’s orbit—and more than a match to his dismissive attitude, much to his own delight, first when he immediately clocks her ruse, and then when he demands she make the gathered men their coffee. There’s a trap you can fall in evangelizing Sarah Jane that she is the first “feminist” companion, and that the women that came before her were just there to shriek at monsters and be saved by the boys. But before this, the Doctor’s female allies—teachers, scientists, explorers, and geniuses among them—were characters that encompassed a variety and nuance unlike many other sci-fi stories of their time, even if the series did struggle to effectively utilize that variety. It also feels reductive of Sarah Jane herself, in a way, that she was defined by being “not like those other girls.” What made Sarah Jane feel so different to the women that had come before her was that she just simply didn’t care what anyone thought of her, and above all was allowed to by her stories: she was a woman on a mission, consequences be damned. If there was a story to be found, Sarah Jane Smith was going to find it. “The Time Warrior” as a whole gives us a brilliant encapsulation of Elisabeth Sladen’s range with the character, one we would see grow and expand over the next three years of adventures. She gets to be fierce and independent, thrown out of time as she finds herself stowed away in the TARDIS as the Doctor hunts down the cause of the missing scientists. She gets to be funny, and charming, navigating being thrust into the Middle Ages—using her femininity to get to places she “shouldn’t” belong, and using that against her foes to help save the day. She does indeed get to be a strong feminist, with her first villainous foils being characters like medieval tyrant Irongron and Commander Linx and his battle-obsessive machismo, and proves herself completely unwilling to buckle to their attempts to look down on her. Sarah Jane still does a lot of the typical things a companion does—get captured and need help—but she’s just as often allowed to help herself and work things out on her own terms, and she’s allowed to be flawed along the way.  The Sarah Jane we meet in “The Time Warrior” immediately has that spark, not just from Sladen’s magnetic performance—it is almost impossible to imagine she was not the first choice for the character, but a replacement for actress April Walker after Jon Pertwee bristled at not being consulted with her casting—but because she feels like, for the first time, Doctor Who has encapsulated a decade’s worth of lessons about its companions and distilled them into a single character. It’s less that Sarah Jane Smith is Doctor Who’s first feminist companion, it’s that she’s the first that just feels like a real, complete woman, undefined by a singular trait or by her association with the Doctor. It’s no wonder then that Sarah Jane and Sladen were perpetually Doctor Who’s point of call when it came to imagining spinoffs from the show without the Time Lord in the spotlight. In the ‘80s of course, we got the failed attempt of K-9 and Company, but at last those plans would be realized more fully after Sarah Jane had been reforged in the crucible of Doctor Who’s modern revival in 2006. “School Reunion” firmly reflects on contrasting Sarah Jane with the kinds of companions her legacy in the classic era went on to inspire by having her brush up against, and then bond, with Rose Tyler, but it also reminds us that, as much as she missed them in all their years apart, Sarah Jane never needed the Doctor to shine—and in her own way, then got to show that to a new generation of kids in The Sarah Jane Adventures. It would’ve been easy to cast her in a quasi-Doctor-ish role in the children’s spinoff—that to be her truest self Sarah Jane just became an iteration of the Doctor, the sage old guardian to adventurous companions of her own—but even decades after the fact SJA constantly reminded us of the nuance and humanity Sladen brought to the character, and allowed her the rare opportunity to explore the life left unseen onscreen after all these years later. What cruel fate it is that Sladen left us with so many of those adventures still left untold. Her death in 2011 broke the heart of legions of Doctor Who fans across generations, thanks to her return and renaissance in the modern era with The Sarah Jane Adventures. But it also clearly broke Doctor Who’s heart, too. For years after the series was unwilling to accept a possibility that Sarah Jane  was not part of its world anymore. We couldn’t see her, but she’s Sarah Jane Smith, god dammit—she was still out there, still finding the stories she craved, still being this remarkable, wonderful person. She simply had to be. It took until 2020 for Doctor Who to canonize Sladen’s passing alongside Sarah Jane’s, in the short story “Farewell Sarah Jane,” but it took until just a few weeks ago for the show itself to grasp it in just a single, heartbreaking line between Ncuti Gatwa’s 15th Doctor, and his predecessor in David Tennant’s traumatized, weary 14th in the 60th anniversary special “The Giggle”: “Sarah Jane has gone, can you believe that for a second?”  Even in acknowledging it, it’s like Doctor Who still can’t believe it. Fifty years on from her debut, looking back it’s clear to see why the show would want to imagine that fantasy of a Sarah Jane Smith forever—to undo harsh reality and simply keep the memory of this complex, loving, adventurous, fierce heroine going and going unseen. But few things feel more fitting a tribute to Sarah Jane’s legacy to let her go, and see her inspiration in the future, and the legions of companions and allies that came after. She made her mark, and we just have to keep dealing with it, consequences be damned. How very Sarah Jane, indeed.  Want more io9 news? Check out when to expect the latest Marvel, Star Wars, and Star Trek releases, what’s next for the DC Universe on film and TV, and everything you need to know about the future of Doctor Who.



Title:  People Are Overdosing on Semaglutide, Poison Control Data Shows 

Americans are increasingly calling poison control centers over semaglutide, the active ingredient in popular weight loss drugs Ozempic and Wegovy. Most of these calls appear to concern potential overdoses of semaglutide and might be tied to a rise in compounded versions of the drug, which aren’t tested for their safety and can come in doses that vary greatly from the typical formulation. Semaglutide was developed by the Danish-based pharmaceutical company Novo Nordisk. It was approved by the Food and Drug Administration to treat type 2 diabetes in 2017 under the brand name Ozempic, and later approved in a higher dose version to treat obesity in 2021 under the name Wegovy (Ozempic is sometimes prescribed off-label for weight loss as well). In clinical trials of Wegovy, the drug has helped people lose an average 15% of their baseline weight, well above the typical success seen with diet and exercise alone or older obesity drugs. No medical treatment comes without potential risks and side effects, though. Even when taking semaglutide as intended, people will frequently experience gastrointestinal issues such as vomiting and diarrhea, though these symptoms tend to wane over time. And it now seems that people are also getting hurt from accidentally misusing the drug as well. On Wednesday, CNN published a report detailing an increase in semaglutide-related calls to poison control. According to America’s Poison Centers, there were almost 3,000 such calls made to centers nationwide from January to November this year—an apparent 1,500% jump in reports since 2019. “Oftentimes, it’s a person who maybe accidentally took a double dose or took the wrong dose,” Kait Brown, clinical managing director of America’s Poison Centers, told CNN. Both Ozempic and Wegovy come in pre-filled pens used to deliver the drug via subcutaneous injections once a week, with Ozempic pens having adjustable doses. It’s a design that should help minimize the risk of overdoses. But officials suspect that at least some of these poison control calls are tied to custom-made versions of semaglutide produced by compounding pharmacies, which may not come with these safeguards. “I think that whenever we have to rely on a patient to discern what the right dose is, to draw up and then administer, you’re putting more chances in there for there to be errors,” Brown said. These products, sometimes falsely marketed as “generic” semaglutide, may use unauthorized formulations of the base ingredient that have not been tested for their safety and effectiveness. Though compounded pharmacies are allowed to produce drugs facing shortages—an issue that has plagued supplies of Wegovy and Ozempic off and on for years now—the FDA says that pharmacies should not do so using these unapproved formulations. The agency has explicitly warned customers to stay away from compounded semaglutide and has gone after several distributors of these products. Novo Nordisk has similarly pursued legal action against spas and other sellers. Compounded semaglutide is likely to remain an appealing option for many, however, due to its typically much lower price. Wegovy can cost over $1,000 a month without insurance coverage, which often isn’t provided by private companies and isn’t allowed to be provided by payers like Medicare. Compounded semaglutide meanwhile might cost less than a third of that. Poison control officials note that even people who take approved semaglutide can sometimes make dosing errors, so anyone taking these drugs should be careful about their use. Based on case reports and incidents recorded by poison control centers, symptoms of a semaglutide overdose can potentially include: severe or prolonged vomiting, feeling lightheaded or dizzy, chills, headache, and even seizures. And if you or a loved one thinks they’ve experienced an overdose, you should call your local poison control center or the national hotline at 800-222-1222. 



Title:  Wyatt Russell Would Love to Remake This Sci-Fi Film 

NO js_post-content class to pull paragrapghs



Title:  Ilya Sutskever’s Team at OpenAI Built Tools to Control a Superhuman AI 

A new research paper out of OpenAI Thursday says a superhuman AI is coming, and the company is developing tools to ensure it doesn’t turn against humans. OpenAI’s Chief Scientist, Ilya Sutskever is listed as a lead author on the paper, but not the blog post that went with it, and his role at the company remains unclear. “We believe superintelligence—AI vastly smarter than humans—could be developed within the next ten years,” said OpenAI in a blog post. “Figuring out how to align future superhuman AI systems to be safe has never been more important, and it is now easier than ever to make empirical progress on this problem.” “Weak-to-strong generalization” is the first paper from Ilya Sutskever and Jan Leike’s “Superalignment” team, created in July to make sure AI systems much smarter than humans will still follow human rules. The proposed solution? OpenAI needs to design small AI models to teach superhuman AI models.  Currently, OpenAI uses humans to “align” ChatGPT by giving it good feedback or negative feedback. That’s how OpenAI ensures ChatGPT won’t give people instructions on how to build napalm at home, or other dangerous outcomes. As ChatGPT gets smarter, however, OpenAI acknowledges humans won’t be sufficient to train these models, so we need to train a less complicated AI to do so on our behalf. This is the first sign of life from Ilya Sutskever at OpenAI since Sam Altman announced nearly everyone was back at OpenAI while leaving Sutskever’s status up in the air. Sutskever, a cofounder of OpenAI, was one of the board members behind Altman’s firing, and he’s a leading voice in the AI community for responsible AI deployment. He’s no longer leading the company forward but he still may have a role there.  The other leader of OpenAI’s Superalignment team, Leike, gave kudos to Ilya for “stoking the fires” on Thursday, but commended others for “moving things forward every day.” The comments raise a question of whether Sutskever started this project, but wasn’t around to finish it. He’s reportedly been invisible at the company in the last few weeks and has hired a lawyer, sources told Business Insider. Jan Leike and other members of OpenAI’s Superalignment team made public statements on this landmark paper, but Sutskever hasn’t said a word—just retweets. The study found that training large AI models with smaller AI models, what they call “weak-to-strong generalization” results in a higher level of accuracy in multiple circumstances, compared to human training. Much of the study used GPT-2 to train GPT-4. It’s important to note that OpenAI says it is not convinced this is a “solution” to superalignment, this is merely a promising framework for training a superhuman AI. “Broadly superhuman models would be extraordinarily powerful and, if misused or misaligned with human values, could potentially cause catastrophic harm,” said OpenAI researchers in the study, noting that it’s been unclear how to empirically study this topic. “We believe it is now easier to make progress on this problem than ever before.” There was significant speculation that OpenAI was close to AGI in November, though much of it was inconclusive. This paper confirms that OpenAI is actively building tools to control an AGI, but does not confirm the existence of an AGI. As for Ilya Sutskever, his status remains in a strange limbo. OpenAI has not confirmed his position at the company, but his team just quietly put out groundbreaking research as he retweets their corporate announcements. 



Title:  It Sure Looks Like Governments Want to Let AI Surveillance Run Wild 

By all accounts,  the European Union’s AI Act seems like something that would make tech ethicists happy. The landmark artificial intelligence law, which enjoyed a huge legislative win this week, seeks to institute a broad regulatory framework that would tackle the harms posed by the new technology. In its current form, the law would go to some lengths to make AI more transparent, inclusive, and consumer-friendly in the countries where it’s in effect. What’s not to like, right? Among other things, the AI Act would bar controversial uses of AI, what it deems “high-risk” systems. This includes things like emotion recognition systems at work and in schools, as well as the kind of social scoring systems that have become so prevalent in China. At the same time, the law also has safeguards around it that would  force companies that generate media content with AI to disclose that use to consumers.  On Monday, regulators from the bloc’s three branches reached a provisional agreement on the law, meaning that, for lack of a better phrase, it’s  a done deal. And yet, despite some policy victories, there are major blindspots in the new law—ones that make civil society groups more than a little alarmed. Damini Satija, Head of the Algorithmic Accountability Lab with Amnesty International, said that her organization and others had been carefully monitoring the development of the AI Act over the past few years and that, while there’s a lot  to celebrate in the new law, it’s not enough.  Indeed, the European Parliament’s own press release on the landmark law admits that “narrow exceptions [exist] for the use of biometric identification systems (RBI)”—police mass surveillance tech, in other words—“in publicly accessible spaces for law enforcement purposes, subject to prior judicial authorisation and for strictly defined lists of crime.” As part of that exemption, the  law allows police to use live facial recognition technology—a controversial tool that has been dubbed “Orwellian” for its ability to monitor and catalog members of the public—in cases where it’s used to prevent “a specific and present terrorist threat” or to ID or find someone who is suspected of a crime. As you might expect, for groups like Amnesty, this seems like a pretty big blind spot. From critics’ perspective, there’s no telling how law enforcement’s use of these technologies could grow in the future. “National security exemptions—as we know from history—are often just a way for governments to implement quite expansive surveillance systems,” said Satija.  Satija also notes that the EU’s law has failed in another critical area. While the law notably bans certain types of “high-risk” AI, what it doesn’t do is ban the export of that AI to other nations. In other words, while most Europeans won’t be subject to certain, controversial surveillance products, companies in the EU will be able to sell those tools to other countries outside of the bloc. Amnesty has specifically pointed to EU companies’ sales of surveillance products to the government of China to surveil its Uyghur population, as well as to Israel to maintain hold over the Palestinians.  Over the past few weeks, Amnesty’s Advocacy Adviser on AI, Mher Hakobyan, has released several statements condemning aspects of the law. In reference to its law enforcement exceptions, Hakobyan said that the bloc had greenlit “dystopian digital surveillance in the 27 EU Member States, setting a devastating precedent globally concerning artificial intelligence (AI) regulation.” The law’s attitude toward exports, on the other hand, demonstrated “a flagrant double-standard on the part of EU lawmakers, who on one hand present the EU as a global leader in promoting ‘secure, trustworthy and ethical Artificial Intelligence’ and on the other hand refuse to stop EU companies selling rights-violating AI systems to the rest of the world,” he said.  Other groups have expressed similar criticism. Christoph Schmon, International Policy Director for the Electronic Frontier Foundation,  said that while parts of the new law looked “promising,” its  approach to law enforcement technologies was troubling.  “The final version of the deal is still in flux, but it’s evident that despite a lot of promising language on fundamental rights protection, the new regulations on biometric surveillance leave many questions open,” said Schmon, in an email. “We have always said that face recognition by governments represents an inherent threat to individual privacy, free expression, and social justice,” he added. “The law enforcement exceptions in the AI deal seem to make the ban of face recognition in public and the restrictions on predictive policing look like Swiss cheese. That said, much will hinge on technical details in the ongoing negotiations and how these rules are then enforced in practice.” The AI Act’s policy details are still being fine-tuned and the EU’s complex legislative process means there are still opportunities for the fine print to shift, slightly. “There’s still quite a bit of work that needs to happen to finalize the exact text and the devil will be in the details,” Satija said. The final version of the bill likely won’t be finalized until sometime in January, she said. For those tracking it, the “AI safety” debate can be convoluted and, at times, quite vexing. There’s been a big tendency on the part of leaders to talk ad nauseam about the dangers that AI poses while not doing a whole helluva lot. Though the EU should be commended for spinning up a law that grapples with a lot of the  challenges posed by artificial intelligence, it also seems somewhat ironic that they’ve chosen to ignore the forms of it that seem most likely to spin out of control and hurt people. After all, it doesn’t get much more dystopic than AI-fueled police surveillance.  If folks are so serious about AI “safety,” why aren’t these use cases a first priority for regulators? Earlier this week, folks started saying that OpenAI’s latest large language model—GPT-4.5—had leaked online. Daniel Nyugen, who posted on X about the supposed leak, described the LLM as having “multi-modal capabilities across language, audio, vision, video, and 3D, alongside complex reasoning and cross-modal understanding.” While it seems like that leak is actually a fake, one thing that is real is that the AI industry is currently obsessed with this whole “multi-modality” thing. Multi-modal systems, as far as I understand it, are ones in which an AI system is built using a variety of different data types (such as text, images, audio, and video), allowing for the system to exhibit “human-like” abilities. OpenAI’s recent integrations of ChatGPT (in which it can now “talk,” “hear,” and “see” stuff) are good examples of multimodality. It’s currently considered a stepping stone towards AGI—artificial general intelligence—which is the much-coveted goal of AI development. 



Title:  Are Rebel Moon and Army of the Dead Now the One True Snyderverse? 

“Snyderverse.” Whether you know the word or not, odds are you’ve heard it. And, for several years, it very clearly referred to the series of DC films director Zack Snyder directed and produced at Warner Bros. The world where Henry Cavill is Superman, Ben Affleck is Batman, and a  legion of fans convinced a studio to let the filmmaker revisit and release a whole new cut of his movie. Tales of the Snyderverse will echo from here to eternity. It’s been quite the ride. However, in the past few years, Snyder has been making new films with his own characters. And while the first few of those, Army of the Dead and its prequel Army of Thieves, felt grounded by comparison, his latest film, Rebel Moon, does not. It explores a huge universe, one fully created and overseen by Snyder himself. So, since the DC characters were not his, but the ones of Rebel Moon and Army are, we asked Snyder, is this world now, the actual, one true Snyderverse? “Wow, that’s a cool question. It could be. Absolutely. I mean, if there is such a thing,” Snyder told io9 over video chat. He seemed to be figuring out the answer in his mind as he was speaking because he then added this: “I don’t really own the copyright on that Snyderverse concept. The fans do. So I would be careful to steal it. But yeah it’s an interesting thing to talk about but I think that in the end, I reserve that name for, you know, all things DC-related.” So maybe the world of Army of the Dead and Rebel Moon isn’t The Snyderverse, but it’s undeniably A Snyderverse. Because when asked about the question of linking the world of his zombie bank heist film and his space opera, Snyder had a very specific answer. “It possibly [has a link],” he said. “It’s more absurd. There’s a dimensional rift at Area 51 that can get you to the Rebel Moon universe, but it’s not a straight [line].” Speaking with Snyder it’s clear he himself doesn’t think in straight lines either. When asked why Rebel Moon had to be split into two movies, instead of cut back into one, he explained that simply didn’t interest him. “When I originally wrote it, I sort of slightly irresponsibly wrote a 200-page script, and so once I had done that, I was kind of stuck and I didn’t want to take anything out,” Snyder said. “And so I was like, the only way I can go forward is to break it into two movies. And, you know, Netflix was really incredibly cool about the notion that we would have two movies.” In fact, Rebel Moon will be at least four movies. “We have these two and then the two director’s cuts, which are an hour longer each,” Snyder said. “So you do get a lot deeper dive on the universe.” Snyder thinks in universes, and that’s a big reason why he’s gained such a passionate legion of fans. However, while he loves those fans, he doesn’t think that their love of his work has changed the way he does things. “I don’t think I approach the movies any differently than I did on Dawn of the Dead, frankly,” Snyder said, referring to his directorial debut. “It’s just I kind of have one speed, one gear, and I just love doing the job. I love the sort of myth that a story has innately built into it. And I just love exploring it. That’s  what turns me on. And I do it as much as I can.” Rebel Moon - Part One: A Child of Fire is now playing in select theaters. It debuts on Netflix December 22 (7 p.m. PT December 21, to be exact). Want more io9 news? Check out when to expect the latest Marvel, Star Wars, and Star Trek releases, what’s next for the DC Universe on film and TV, and everything you need to know about the future of Doctor Who.



Title:  Google's multi-state lawsuit settlement will cost it $700 million 

On top of fighting (and losing to) Epic Games over Play Store antitrust concerns, Google has been fighting a similar lawsuit filed by 36 states and the District of Columbia in 2021. A settlement for that suit was announced in September, but a judge still had to confirm the terms. Now, Google has announced that it will pay a $700 million fine and make what amounts to fairly minor changes to the Play Store. Of that sum, Google will distribute $630 million to consumers who may have overpaid for apps or in-app purchases on Google Play (after taxes, lawyers’ fees, etc.). That covers around 102 million people, according to The Washington Post. It will also pay $70 million into a "fund that will be used by the states," according to Google's blog. The other major change is that Google must allow developers to steer consumers toward sideloading to avoid Google's Play Store fees on subscriptions and the like. It'll do that via updated "language that informs users about these potential risks of downloading apps directly from the web for the first time." However, these actions will be time limited to seven years for the sideloading and five years for the updated language, according to settlement's wording spotted by The Verge. Google will also include language stating that "OEMs can continue to provide users with options out of the box to use Play or another app store." Starting with Android 14, third-party stores will be allowed to handle future app updates, including automatic installs. It's also expanding user choice billing that will allow Android apps and games to offer their own payment system in the US. "Developers are also able to show different pricing options within the app when a user makes a digital purchase," Google states. The company will only be required to make these changes for five or six years maximum (seven years for alternate means to download apps). In other words, it could feasibly cut off access to sideloading or third-party app stores after that point, or make it harder for the average consumer to find the option. Another big thing missing is exterior payment links. "Google is not required to allow developers to include links that take a User outside an app distributed through Google Play to make a purchase," the settlement agreement reads. The settlement sum represents a miniscule portion of Google's turnover and the other terms are relatively minor changes over what it already does. It also doesn't include Epic Games, which won its own lawsuit against Google earlier this month (Google has vowed to appeal). A court still needs to formally approve the states' settlement. Google also argued at its Epic trial that consumers were able to get games by sideloading and other means, but that failed to sway the jury. When the settlement with the states was announced in September, Epic CEO Tim Sweeny said that if it "left the Google tax in place" his company would fight on. "Consumers only benefit if antitrust enforcement not only opens up markets, but also restores price competition," he said at the time.



Title:  Insomniac Games hackers leak 1.3 million files after demanding $2 million ransom 

On December 12, Rhysida, a ransomware group, announced it had taken 1.67 terabytes of data — over 1.3 million files — from Sony's Insomniac Games and requested $2 million. Now, the one-week deadline for Insomniac Games to pay Rhysida has passed, and the group has made good on its threat to release the stolen information, Cyber Daily reports. The data includes internal HR documents, screenshots of employees' Slack conversations, and more, but the main focus is the yet-to-be-released Wolverine video game. The released files contain details about level design, characters and actual screenshots from the game. There's also a signed publishing agreement between Sony and Marvel that lays out three upcoming X-Men games, the first being Wolverine, with the other two still unnamed. However, it details that Sony — which plans to spend $120 million per game — must release Wolverine by September 1, 2025, with the others due by the end of 2029 and 2033, respectively. Rhysida claims that it took the group only 20 to 25 minutes to get the domain administrator and that money was their sole motivation. "We knew that developers making games like this would be an easy target," a Rhysida spokesperson told Cyber Daily. "Sony has launched an investigation, but it would be better in the backyard." Notably, Rhysida's initial ransom notice allowed anyone to bid on the data, not just Insomniac Games, and it appears some of it was bought. The ransomware group stated that any unsold data was released — but only 98 percent of stolen information is publicly available. Rhysida stipulated that any data purchased must not be resold, but who knows if the new owners will follow that rule. Rhysida only targeted Insomniac Games within Sony, but in May, a separate attack gained access to 6,800 current and former employees' personal data. The attack, which ransomware group CLOP took credit for, became public knowledge in October.



Title:  Xfinity suffered a data breach but doesn't know quite how bad it was 

Xfinity says a data breach likely led to attackers obtaining customers' usernames and hashed passwords. Other personal information may have been exposed, such as names, contact information, the last four digits of social security numbers, dates of birth and secret questions and answers. The company added that its analysis of the attack is ongoing, which may explain why it hasn't disclosed the number of customers who have been affected. Xfinity also notes that it informed law enforcement about the incident. On October 10, Citrix disclosed a vulnerability in software that Xfinity and many other businesses use. It provided guidance on how to mitigate the vulnerability on October 23 and Xfinity said it swiftly patched the problem. However, while carrying out a routine cybersecurity check two days later, Xfinity spotted suspicious activity in its systems. It later determined that bad actors accessed its internal network between October 16 and 19. Xfinity says it's informing customers of the incident via its website, email and by other means. It's urging them to change their passwords, to make sure they don't use the same passwords on different accounts and to enable two-factor or multi-factor authentication. Xfinity also suggested that folks who use the same login credentials on other accounts change their passwords on those. This isn't the first security incident Xfinity has had to deal with. Back in 2018, it emerged there was a bug in a Comcast website used to activate Xfinity routers. The issue led to some customers' home addresses being exposed, along with the name and password for their Wi-Fi networks.



Title:  TomTom and Microsoft team up to bring generative AI to automobiles 

TomTom just announced a “fully integrated, AI-powered conversational automotive assistant” which should start popping up in dashboard infotainment platforms in the near-ish future. The company has issued some bold claims for the AI, saying it’ll offer “more sophisticated voice interaction” and allow users to converse naturally to navigate, find stops along a route, control onboard systems, open windows and just about anything else you find yourself doing while driving. The company, best known for GPS platforms, partnered up with Microsoft to develop this AI assistant. The technology leverages OpenAI’s large language models, in addition to Microsoft products like Azure Cosmos DB and Azure Cognitive Services. Cosmos DB is a multi-model database and Cognitive Services is a set of APIs for use in AI applications, so this should be a capable assistant that draws from the latest advancements. TomTom promises that the voice assistant will integrate into a variety of interfaces offered by major automobile manufacturers, stating that the auto company will retain ownership of its branding. So this could start showing up in cars from a wide variety of makers. The company hasn’t announced any definitive partnerships with known vehicle manufacturers, but the technology will be integrated into TomTom’s proprietary Digital Cockpit, an open and modular in-vehicle infotainment platform. This isn’t the first time a company has tried to stuff an LLM inside of a car. Back in June, Mercedes announced a three-month beta program that incorporated ChatGPT models into select vehicles. This tool also leveraged Microsoft’s Azure OpenAI service. TomTom is showing off the AI at CES in January, so we’ll know more about how it actually works at that point.



Title:  Volkswagen is returning to physical buttons instead of touch controls 

It may seem like blasphemy for an Engadget writer to diss touch controls, but as the demise of the MacBook Pro's Touch Bar has proven, those aren't always a good idea — especially on cars. As spotted by Autocar at Volkswagen City Studio in Copenhagen, the ID. 2all concept electric car now features a slightly updated interior, with the most notable change being the return of physical buttons below the central touchscreen. According to the brand's interior designer Darius Watola, this will be "a new approach for all models" based on "recent feedback from customers" — especially those in Europe who wanted "more physical buttons." In Autocar's Tiguan launch interview back in June, Volkswagen CEO Thomas Schäfer already acknowledged customers' criticism on the over-reliance on touch controls — namely on the Golf Mk8 and ID.3, not to mention the same trend across the motor industry. The exec went as far as saying the earlier touch-heavy approach — endorsed by his predecessor, Herbert Diess — "definitely did a lot of damage" in terms of customer loyalty. The future of Volkswagen interiors revealed. Here’s the ID.2 - on sale in 2025.Classy and not everything on the touchscreen. pic.twitter.com/bXef4fXk99 — Steve Fowler (@SteveFowler) December 14, 2023 The ID. 2all is based on Volkswagen's updated MEB Entry platform, and packs a 223HP motor that can go up to 62MPH in under seven seconds. As far as range goes, this car can apparently travel up to 280 miles on a single charge, but that's with the larger and more advanced 56kWh battery instead of the base 38kWh version. Expect this concept electric vehicle to cost under €25,000 (around $27,300), when it arrives as a production model in Europe in 2025. The company also recently teased the ID. 2all SUV, which is described as "the brother of the ID. 2all," but it won't be out until 2026. First look at the ID. 2all SUV, the brother of the ID. 2all. The SUV version will arrive in 2026! pic.twitter.com/4SxgTDdH2e — Stepan Rehak (@StepanRehak) December 14, 2023



Title:  You have a whole additional year to convert your Google Stadia controller to Bluetooth 

Google is giving anyone who has a WiFi-only Stadia controller lying around an additional year to convert it to Bluetooth. The deadline to do this was previously until the end of this year, but Google is now extending it to December 31, 2024. Google axed Stadia, its cloud gaming service, at the beginning of this year. Most customers who bought digital games through the Google Store got refunds, but some physical hardware such as Stadia’s controller that connected directly to WiFi, is still out there. Enabling Bluetooth on Stadia controllers will let people use them with any other devices such as PCs, Macs, phones or tablets. This, as Kotaku points out, could prevent e-waste. Switching your controller to Bluetooth is permanent. It takes about three minutes and requires a USB cable, according to Google. To pair a Stadia controller to Bluetooth, you need to press and hold the Y and Stadia button for at least two seconds. You’ll know that the controller has entered “pairing mode” when the status light flashes orange. If you’re having issues establishing a connection, Google advises making sure that the controller is charged for at least 30 minutes.



Title:  Nikola founder Trevor Milton sentenced to four years in prison 

Trevor Milton, the disgraced founder of Nikola, was just sentenced to four years in prison on three counts of fraud. In October 2022, a jury found Milton guilty of one count of securities fraud and two counts of wire fraud. Milton faced up to 60 years in prison. Prosecutors asked the judge for an 11-year prison sentence and a $5 million fine, according to The New York Times, while the defense argued for probation. After announcing the sentence at a federal court hearing in New York City, U.S. District Judge Edgar Ramos spoke directly to Milton. "As difficult as it may be for you or your family to hear, I believe the jury got it right," Ramos said, as transcribed Reuters.  Milton addressed the court before sentencing was handed down, saying "I did not intend to harm anyone and I did not commit those crimes levied against me." He also spoke at length about his rural upbringing and recited biblical verse. Prosecutors claimed that Milton pumped up the value of the company's stock by lying to investors about "nearly all aspects" of Nikola's business. Among other things, Milton claimed his company had a fully functional electric truck. The company released a video that made it appear as though a Nikola One prototype was able to move by itself. However, an indictment alleged that the truck was actually rolling down a hill and that Milton was involved in the video's creation. In addition, Milton was accused of lying about Nikola having billions of dollars worth of pre-order reservations and that it was producing hydrogen fuel at four times less than market rates. Prosecutors also said Milton falsely claimed Nikola had developed "game-changing" battery tech. Nikola is still in business and it plans to resume deliveries of its battery electric truck in early 2024 following a recall over battery issues that cost around $61.8 million to resolve. In the nine months to September 30, Nikola produced 96 trucks and shipped 79. The company's stock price has dropped by 99 percent since 2020 and investors are said to have lost more than $660 million. Milton sold around $100 million of his Nikola stock in 2020 and spent most of that on luxury goods such as a plane and real estate, according to the Times. It's likely that Milton will appeal this conviction, as he's already asked Ramos for a new trial following the jury's guilty verdict.



Title:  Webb telescope’s new Uranus image looks like a portal to another dimension 

The James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) has a treat to celebrate the upcoming second anniversary of its launch. NASA and the European Space Agency (ESA), which operate the craft alongside the Canadian Space Agency (CSA), shared a recent image of the icy planet Uranus. The picture, resembling a glowing blue marble rippling into a black ocean, was funneled through the telescope’s infrared filters to capture wavelengths future space travelers wouldn’t see with the naked eye. Compared with the generic-looking images of Uranus taken by Voyager 2 in the 1980s, the Webb telescope paints a more vivid picture. Capturing light in the infrared spectrum, the craft’s sensors reveal a “strange and dynamic ice world filled with exciting, atmospheric features,” as the team operating the telescope described it. The JWST’s image showcases the planet’s rings surrounding the planet, including “the elusive Zeta ring,” Uranus’ faint and scattered innermost one. You can also catch its north polar cloud cap, the white blob near the center. The image also captures 14 of Uranus’ 27 moons, labeled in the photo above. Among the (mostly Shakespearean-named) orbiting bodies pictured are Oberon, Titania, Umbriel, Juliet, Perdita, Rosalind, Puck, Belinda, Desdemona, Cressida, Ariel, Miranda, Bianca and Portia. The JWST’s photo uses four NIRCam filters, revealing detail in the near-infrared spectrum. These include F140M (blue), F210M (cyan), F300M (yellow) and F460M (orange). An image NASA shared earlier this year showed Uranus in only two filters (blue and orange), resulting in a more primitive-looking view of the icy giant. Speaking of ice, Uranus has loads of it. The planet rotates on its side at about 98 degrees, plunging the opposite side of the planet into extreme cold and darkness for a quarter of a Uranian year. Oh, and since Uranian years last around 84 Earth years, that means, by our calendar, the planet’s dark side enjoys a blustery 21-year winter. Astronomers believe the Webb telescope’s images will help them better understand Uranus, especially its Zeta ring, for future missions. They also view the pictures as a proxy for learning about the nearly 2,000 documented exoplanets in other solar systems that share traits with our ringed and icy neighbor.



Title:  You can reserve Acura’s ZDX EV starting today 

Acura has opened reservations for its first fully electric vehicle (EV). Starting today, you can order the Acura ZDX at around $60,000 for a baseline model with a single-motor (rear-wheel-drive) powertrain. The first deliveries of the “performance SUV” are expected in early 2024. The automaker said earlier this year it would shift to online-only sales of Acura EVs starting in 2024, and ZDX preorders appear to reflect that. The company said the EV is available through “a new, omni-channel digital sales process,” which buyers can use themselves at home, or receive assistance in using at Acura dealers (although the EVs won't be available at the dealership itself.) The ZDX comes in two models. The standard ($60,000 and up) A-Spec variant ships with a 325-mile range, 340 horsepower, a rear-wheel-drive single motor and 20-inch wheels. Meanwhile, the all-wheel-drive ZDX Type S has a shorter 288-mile range but a more potent 500 horsepower, 22-inch wheels and a starting price of around $70,000. Parent company Honda describes the pricier Type S as “the most powerful and best performing Acura SUV ever.” The EV has Android Auto, built-in Google apps and Apple CarPlay integration. It includes an 11-inch driver-side touchscreen, an 11.3-inch center display and a Bang & Olufsen audio system, which is standard. Its safety features include a rear pedestrian alert and blind zone steering assist. It even has hands-free cruise driver assistance. The ZDX supports DC Fast Charging (and can add 81 miles through a 10-minute top-off). In addition, Honda has teamed with six other automakers on a project to build a network of 30,000 stations across North America. That initiative is expected to begin in the US by the summer of 2024. You can order your ZDX in either model in Acura’s online reservations portal. Honda notes pre-orders will include a bonus Acura Energy Key Card, which can unlock “exclusive benefits,” including “discounts to Acura entertainment partners and special events.”



Title:  Major apparel supplier behind North Face and Vans hit by cyberattack, disrupting its holiday fulfillments 

VF Corporation reported in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing on Monday that it had been hit by a cyberattack. The company owns a slew of apparel brands, including Vans, North Face, Timberland, Dickies and more — and it warns the disruption could affect your holiday shopping. VF first noticed "unauthorized occurrences" on its IT systems on December 13, it said in a statement to Engadget. While it began to mitigate the damage, VF found that the hackers had encrypted some of its IT systems and stole personal data. It's trying to come up with work arounds so that people can still buy from VF brands, but the $7 billion company said the attack messed with its ability to fulfill orders. "At this time, VF-operated retail stores globally are open, and currently consumers can purchase available merchandise, but VF is experiencing certain operational disruptions," a company spokesperson told Engadget on Monday. "At this time, consumers are also able to place orders on most of the brand e-commerce sites globally. However, the Company’s ability to fulfill orders is currently impacted." VF did not confirm who was behind the attack or provide additional details on what delays customers could experience. The hack comes shortly after VF said it was experiencing financial headwinds at its quarterly earning meeting. It's still unclear whether customer data may have been impacted.



Title:  TikTok upgrades its app experience for tablets and foldables 

You can now mindlessly scroll your TikTok’s ‘for you page’ on larger screens and foldable devices. The new update will be available for users worldwide and on devices like the iPad or the various foldable Android phones out there. TikTok, which is traditionally mobile-forward, said it will deliver a clear video feed of content on bigger screens with “enhanced clarity.” The top and bottom of screens that stream TikTok videos will have a navigation bar that makes it easier to access tabs and featured videos. With this update, clips can also be watched in landscape orientation. This creates new opportunities for video creators to generate content in a horizontal format after years of a vertical-only. TikTok also said it is going to continue experimenting with features like Topic Feeds, which would allow users to explore videos in specific categories like gaming, food or fashion. The platform has been exploring new ways to deliver content to users and it has been quietly testing the idea of an AI-powered chatbot that can recommend videos to users. While it’s still the leading app for short-form videos, creating unique ways to deliver content to its users can help set the social media company itself apart from competitors in the space, like Instagram’s Reels and YouTube Shorts.



Title:  Flipboard is moving to the fediverse 

Flipboard is the latest mainstream app to officially join the fediverse, the collection of decentralized services that run on the ActivityPub protocol. The news reading app, which has been experimenting with Mastodon for nearly a year, now plans to become fully interoperable with Mastodon and the rest of the fediverse. The news reading app is starting with the accounts of about two dozen publishers, including Polygon, Medium, Semafor, Kotaku and Mental Floss, whose Flipboard content will be discoverable across the fediverse. By next month, the company expects all public Flipboard accounts will be federated, meaning anyone on an ActivityPub-powered app will be able to view their posts and interact with them. And beginning in April, according to Flipboard CEO Mike McCue, all fediverse content will also be readily available within the Flipboard app itself. This means users will be able to use Flipboard browse content shared to Mastodon, Pixelfed (a photo sharing app kind of like Instagram), PeerTube (a decentralized video platform) and the rest of the apps that make up the fediverse. Flipboard’s official entrance into the fediverse comes at a moment where there is increasing enthusiasm for ActivityPub within the social media industry. Last week, Meta announced that it was taking its first steps toward making Threads compatible with Mastodon and the rest of the fediverse. “I think you’ll probably have more than 150 million people in the fediverse by the end of the next year,” McCue tells Engadget, “You have millions of Flipboard users, millions of Threads users all joining this network ... it’s not going to take very long before this becomes the largest social network.” McCue’s enthusiasm for Mastodon and the fediverse is especially notable given his once close ties to Twitter. The Flipboard CEO was a member of Twitter’s board between 2010 and 2012, and reportedly considered selling Flipboard to the company in 2015. But Elon Musk’s takeover of the company, and the disintegration of its API, prompted him to begin experimenting with Mastodon and Bluesky integrations earlier this year. He now believes that momentum for the fediverse is so strong, Twitter may ultimately end up supporting ActivityPub too. “More and more companies will have to look at ActivityPub,” he predicts. “I wouldn’t be surprised if Twitter ultimately decides they’re going to have to do this.”



Title:  NordVPN comes to the Apple TV 

Apple’s recently-released tvOS 17 update allows for native VPN apps and big-name providers are wasting no time. ExpressVPN dropped an app a couple of weeks ago and now the same is true of one of its primary competitors. NordVPN now has an official Apple TV app available for download. This is the real deal and works with your current NordVPN subscription, if you have one. The setup is simple. Just download the app and sign in. If you’re new to the service, download the app and create an account. Once connected, you’ll have access to the company’s global array of secure servers. The app encrypts all network traffic and uses the company’s NordLynx protocol to speed up the connection, which should offer an optimized streaming experience with minimal buffering. Of course, this will likely depend on the locations of your actual network connection and virtual network connection. Back when Apple first announced that native VPNs would be coming to tvOS 17, NordVPN expressed doubts, telling The Verge that the company was “concerned that there may be some limitations.” It looks like it got over those doubts. So, why would you even want or need a dedicated VPN on your Apple streaming box? There are a couple of reasons, all of which involve traveling with the diminutive device. You can customize settings, like preferred server location, which helps get around geographic restrictions regarding streaming content. Nobody’s gonna stop you from binging Foundation while on vacation. Even without geo-restrictions, bringing your Apple TV into a hotel room will allow you to stream whatever you want instead of relying on, gag, cable. Before tvOS 17, you couldn’t configure a VPN on these devices. You’d have to install a VPN client on the router, which is notoriously complicated. Kudos to Apple on this one. NordVPN isn’t the only available VPN on the Apple TV App Store. There’s the aforementioned ExpressVPN, PureVPN and several more. You can install VPN apps on Apple TV HD and Apple TV 4K devices, running tvOS 17 or later. Speaking of tvOS 17, the company just dropped an update. The latest and greatest tvOS 17.2 brings a redesigned interface and the ability to answer FaceTime calls directly from the TV.



Title:  The best Bluetooth trackers for 2024 

If you’ve ever been derailed from an on-time departure by a set of lost keys or misplaced wallet, you’ll benefit from a Bluetooth tracker. These small gadgets attach to your stuff and use your smartphone to keep tabs on where they are. There’s a growing number of these gadgets available now, and we tested out some of the most popular options to find our top picks and help you decide which is the best Bluetooth tracker for you. Bluetooth trackers are small discs or cards that rely on short-range, low-energy wireless signals to communicate with your smartphone. Attach one to your stuff and, if it’s in range, your phone can “ring” the chip so you can find it. These tracking devices offer other features like separation alerts to tell you when you’ve left a tagged item behind, or where a lost item was last detected. Some can even tap into a larger network of smartphones to track down your device when you’re out of range. Depending on what you want the tracker to do, there are a few specs to look for when deciding which to get. Like most things from the folks in Cupertino, AirTags only work with products in the Apple ecosystem. The company has opened up access to its Find My network to third-party manufacturers, including Chipolo, though. Its One Spot and Card Spot finders work with Apple's large tracking network, but only pair with Apple devices. Chipolo’s classic trackers will work with either Android or Apple devices, as will Tile trackers. Crowd-sourced finding capabilities are what make headlines, with stories about recovering stolen equipment or tracking lost luggage across the globe. Using anonymous signals that ping other people’s devices, these Bluetooth tracking devices can potentially tell you where a tagged item is, even if your smartphone is out of Bluetooth range. Apple’s Find My network is by far the largest, with over a billion iPhones in service all running Apple’s Find My app by default. So unless an iPhone user opts out, their phone silently acts as a location detector for any nearby AirTags. While Android phones outnumber iPhones globally, they don’t have a similar, unified network yet. During this year’s I/O conference, Google announced upcoming upgrades to its Find My Device network, starting with better anti-stalking measures, some of which it recently debuted. The complete roll out of the FindMy-rivaling network has been delayed until the end of this year. We know of a few trackers that will take advantage of the new system and once they’re available, we’ll test them out and update this guide. In the meantime, Tile offers the second-largest finding grid, with every smartphone that runs the Tile app acting as incognito locators. After Life360 acquired Tile, the 47 million users of that app were added to the 50 million existing Tile users, creating a sizable network. In our tests, AirTags offered nearly real-time location data and were quickest to find items abandoned in spots around Albuquerque, including a bar, bookstore and coffee shop in Nob Hill, along with various outdoor hangouts on UNM’s campus. Bluetooth tracking Tiles were able to locate our lost items most of the time, though not with the same pin-point accuracy as AirTags. Chipolo’s Spot trackers operate on the same Find My network and perform on par with the AirTags. Chipolo’s classic trackers, on the other hand, don’t have much of a crowd-sourced network to speak of. Yet as we used the trackers, the size of the finding network started to feel less important in the face of typical, everyday use cases. It was their ability to out-perform in every other way that boosted Chipolo’s classic trackers to the top of our list. Here’s where a tracker’s day-to-day utility really shines. A separation alert lets you know when you’ve traveled too far from your tagged items, which is useful if you want to make sure your laptop bag, or jacket or umbrella always comes with you when you leave the house. These notifications work when you’re out and about too. If you’ve got a Bluetooth tracking device in your wallet and walk out of a restaurant without it, the separation alert should kick in, resulting in fewer lost items. This feature also tells you where your tagged item and phone were last paired, allowing you to retrace your steps if you happen to miss the alert. Each tracker handles left-behind items differently. Both AirTags and Chipolo include the feature by default. Tile trackers require a yearly subscription to enable the alerts (currently $30 per year). Both AirTags and Tiles allow you to turn off separation alerts at certain locations, meaning you can set your home as a “safe” place where items can be left behind, but alerts will still trigger elsewhere. Chipolo doesn’t offer safe locations, but you can toggle out-of-range alerts on a per-item basis. In our tests, the Chipolo sent an alert after we got between 250 and 450 feet away from our tagged item. AirTags alerted us between the 600- and 1,400-foot mark. And Tiles sent a notification after about an average of 1,500 feet. Tile notifications were not consistent on an iPhone, but worked well when operating with an Android phone. The feature you may use most often is the simple “find my keys” function. If you have your phone, but no idea where your tagged keys are, you can tap a button in the tracker’s app to make the tracker ring. Tile and Chipolo classic trackers will also let you double click the device itself to make your phone ring, but AirTags and Chipolos running on the Find My app don’t offer this feature. The volume of the Bluetooth tracking device may determine whether you can find an item buried in your couch cushions or in a noisy room. AirTags have a reputation for being on the quiet side, and that aligned with what we saw (measuring roughly 65 decibels). Chipolo’s keychain-style tags, both the Apple-only version and the device-agnostic version, and the Tile Slim wallet tracker were the loudest, measuring between 83 and 85 decibels. Design will determine what you can attach the tracker to. AirTags are small, smooth discs that have no way of securing to anything without accessories, which are numerous, but that is an additional cost to consider. Both Chipolo and Tile offer trackers with holes that easily attach to your key ring, and both companies also offer card-shaped versions designed to fit in your wallet. Batteries are replaceable for AirTags, Chipolo One and Tile Pro. Tile Mate and all card-shaped trackers don’t have replaceable batteries, which means you’ll have to replace the entire unit whenever it dies. Pebblebee trackers are rechargeable. We’re currently testing them and will update this guide to share how they stack up. AirTags have recently gotten a lot of attention for bad actors planting them on people in order to stalk them. While this fact may not influence your buying decision, any discussion of Bluetooth trackers should note what steps Apple, Google and Tile have taken to address the issue. If an AirTag is detected moving with you and apart from its owner, the device will ring to alert you of its presence. Whether you have an iPhone or an Android phone, as long as you have location services and Bluetooth turned on, you’ll automatically get an alert with no further steps required. Tile offers a similar feature through its standard app, and it doesn’t require a Tile account to search for suspicious nearby trackers. Recently, Tile launched a feature called Anti-Theft Mode, which enables you to render one of its trackers undetectable by others. That means if someone steals your tagged item, they won’t be able to use the anti-stalking features to find its precise location and disable the tracker. Of course, that potentially makes a Tile easier to use as a stalking device, so in order to enable the feature, you have to verify your ID and agree to a $1 million penalty for misuse. In general, a Bluetooth tracker may or may not be the best option for combating theft. Anecdotal stories abound in which people have recovered stolen goods using a tracker — but other tales are more cautionary. Apple still doesn’t promote its trackers or finding networks as a way to deal with theft. GPS trackers, on the other hand, are typically marketed for just that purpose. Before deciding on which trackers to test, we researched the field, looking at user reviews on Amazon, Best Buy and other retailers, along with discussions on sites like Reddit. We also checked out what other publications had to say on the matter before narrowing down our picks to Apple AirTag, Tile and Chipolo trackers. When Samsung's SmartTag 2 came out in October of 2023, we added that to our testing, along with Pebblebee's rechargeable Chip tracker. Here’s the full list of every tracker we tested: Apple AirTag Tile Mate Tile Pro Tile Slim Chipolo Card Spot Chipolo One Spot Chipolo One Chipolo Card Pebblebee Clip Samsung SmartTag 2 After acquiring the trackers, I tested each one over the course of a few weeks using both an iPhone 11 and a Samsung Galaxy S22 Ultra. I recreated likely user experiences, such as losing and leaving items behind at home and out in the city. I planted trackers at different spots near downtown Albuquerque, mostly concentrated in and around the University of New Mexico and the surrounding neighborhood of Nob Hill. Each test was performed multiple times, both while walking and driving and I used the measure distance feature on Google Maps to track footage for alerts. I paid attention to how easy the app was to use, how reliable the phone-to-tracker connection was and any other perks and drawbacks that came up during regular use. Compatible with both iPhone and Android devices, the Chipolo One was the loudest tracker we tried and had the most reliable alerts and quickest nearby detection abilities. Hands-on testing is great at smashing assumptions, and that’s what happened with the Chipolo One. This tracker’s crowd-sourced finding network cannot compare with Apple’s AirTag or Tile. In fact, when I left the Chipolo for 24 hours just outside the busy student union at UNM, I was never alerted that a member of the Chipolo community had detected my item. But as I used it and pictured how most people would use a tracker on a daily basis, the device proved its worth and earned its spot on my keyring. The One is a small and colorful plastic disc with a hole. It works with both Apple and Android devices and requires an app which is simple to use and easily pairs new trackers. The app and tracking experience on an iPhone and a Galaxy phone were nearly identical, working equally well on both platforms. It rang the loudest of all the trackers, so lost items were quickly found around the house. Unlike other trackers, there was never a delay between pressing the Ring to Find button and hearing the trill. The ring delay for AirTag was never more than a few seconds and Tiles would generally connect and ring after no more than ten seconds. While that’s not a deal-breaking delay, it could add to the stress of rushing out the door. Where the Chipolo One truly set itself apart was with its separation alerts. I would only get a half to two blocks away (or an average of 350 feet) before getting an alert asking if I’d forgotten an item. Neither AirTag nor Tile ever beat Chipolo to the punch. The alerts were consistent whether I was forgetting an item at home, at a coffee shop, or inside my car. As far as losing stuff out in the wild, it will get you back to the spot where your phone and tracker were last paired. That means if you miss an alert or don’t have them turned on, Chipolo will give you directions (via your maps app) and take you right to where you left your item. In one test, I had a friend hide the tracker nearby when I wasn't looking. I left the area and returned hours later, using the last location information to lead me within a few feet of the tracker’s precise location. Ringing the tracker then made it easy to find. Of course, if someone walks off with your tracked item, the Chipolo will be harder pressed to help you out. If you’re concerned about lost luggage when you travel or if you worry you may lose things on trains or buses, this isn’t the tracker for you because of its much smaller finding network. But if you’re looking for a dead simple way to find your keys and make sure your jacket leaves the bar when you do, the Chipolo One is hard to beat. With the widest finding network we tried, Apple's AirTags excel at tapping into the community to find lost items. AirTags work with iOS' Find My app, so they don’t require any additional downloads. If you’ve used the Find My app before, you’ll likely understand how this works. These are the quietest of the trackers we tested and each time you press the Play Sound button, the tags only ring for seven seconds. You’ll need to keep pressing if you don’t find your item right away and AirTags can’t be used to ring your phone. As for separation alerts, AirTags were consistent, always delivering a “left behind” alert when I traveled about 1,200 feet away, or about three square blocks, without an item. You can turn off separation alerts for any given tracker, as well as designate certain locations, such as your home or workplace, as exceptions for the notifications. One feature that AirTags have that no other tag offers is the ability to tap into the ultra-wideband (UWB) wireless protocol. This allows you to play a fun game of hot and cold with an item when it’s within about 25 feet of your iPhone. Directional arrows and a diminishing distance meter on your iPhone’s screen point you to an item without having to ring it. This worked reliably about 75 percent of the time in my tests; sometimes it was just easier to ring the item when the directional finding couldn’t keep a lock on the tracker. UWB is supported by iPhone models 11 and later and while newer Galaxy and Pixel phones also support UWB, no Android-compatible tracker has yet been released. In 2021, Tile announced one that would, but has since missed its promised release window of “early 2022.” AirTag’s ability to locate a lost item out in the city is almost eerie. I had someone (who was not carrying an iPhone) take my bike with a tracker hidden under the seat to a location a little over a half mile away. I set out a few minutes later and toggled on Notify When Found in the Find My app. Within three minutes, I received a notification that the bike had been “seen” near an address. Tapping on Directions navigates to Apple Maps, which took me to a spot about 30 feet from the bike. Had it been obscured from view, I could have then used the Find Nearby button to activate the UWB locating features. Ringing the tag was too quiet to hear on the sidewalk. If you want the same scary-precise community finding features, but with a louder ring and a hole in the tracker, the Chipolo One Spot is a solid option. It doesn’t offer UWB capabilities, however, and the separation alerts are the same as with AirTags (letting you get 1,200 feet away before a ping, versus an average of 350 feet with our top rec, Chipolo One classic). Or, for a rechargeable option, the Pebblebee Clip is a good AirTag alternative. True, you can swap out the battery in Apple's discs, but charging your tracker via USB-C every few months might be easier. The Pebblebee works with Apple’s Find My network and has the same setup as an AirTag. In my tests, it was spotted just as quickly as Apple’s tracker, and the left-behind alerts went off about the same distance away. But the Pebblebee has a few advantages over AirTags: The black disk has a built-in metal attachment point and includes a small carabiner clip, so for most situations, you won’t need an additional accessory. The Pebblebee is far louder than Apple’s tracker, too. I also like that when you ping it from the app, it continues ringing until you hit stop instead of going silent after seven seconds. Pebblebee makes a rechargeable wallet tracker as well, which may be easier to slide in a billfold than the rounded AirTag. One word of warning, however: If you’re going to use it with Find My, don’t set it up with Pebblebee’s own app beforehand. If you do, you’ll have to do a factory reset before it’ll work with Apple’s app. Tile has a considerable finding network and Tile Pro offers a replaceable battery. Tile will work with either Android or Apple devices, but the experience is much better on Android. Certain connectivity issues and a lack of alerts that plagued the iPhone experience did not show up in tests with the Galaxy phone. One caveat to note is that Tile requires a subscription to enable separation alerts. Tile Premium goes for $3 per month or $30 per year and includes location history and item reimbursement of up to $100 on items that you register with the company, they’ll also send out a fresh battery once a year. Tile stands out as the only tracker company offering reimbursement — even without a subscription, they’ll pay out up to $25 for items that you register with them. The Tile Pro is a key-fob shaped device with a metal keychain hole that feels sturdy. The Pro’s ring was just a few decibels quieter than the Tile Mate (78 versus 82 decibels), but the connectivity range was better with the Pro, and it was more accurate in finder network tests. On top of that, this is the only current Tile device with a replaceable battery, which lasts about one year. For the lost-item tests, I had a friend take the Pro to random locations. After turning on the Notify When Found feature, an alert would arrive between five and ten minutes later saying my lost item was “found by the community.” The map details were typically accurate within about 100 feet or so, though it occasionally thought the Tile was at a business next door to where it actually was. Without the UWB feature, precision finding of an item was trickier. In one test, the tracker ended up in a noisy pub. While the directions pointed me to the right location, it would have been difficult to find the item if I hadn’t spotted my friend, as the ring function was useless among the din. For those with a Samsung phone, the SmartTag 2 may be the next best thing to Apple's AirTag.   Nothing can beat the vastness of Apple’s Find My network, since it relies on every nearby iPhone to help locate AirTags. The number of Samsung phones in the US may be smaller than the number of Apple handsets out there, but it’s still significant. The new SmartTag 2 relies on those phones to offer a finding network that may not best Apple’s, but is larger than anything else out there for Android at the moment. Of course, once Google unleashes its expanded Find My Device network, everything will change. The SmartTag 2 only works with Samsung devices and after testing one out with a Galaxy S23, I was impressed how quickly it was able to find tagged items out in the wild, though the precision didn’t quite match that of Apple. Of all the trackers I’ve tried, I like the design of the SmartTag the best. It’s an oblong fob with a big hole for attaching directly to your keys, or you can buy the optional silicone case and ring Samsung offers. Its volume is louder than the AirTag and the Tile Pro, but not as loud as either the Chipolo One or the Pebblebee Clip. You can also change the tag’s ringtone or double squeeze it to ring your handset, both things that you can’t do with AirTags. Setup is simple as well: once you remove the plastic pull tab, your phone senses the tracker and walks you through the standard permissions (location services, notifications) and warnings (don’t use the tracker on people). The companion app, SmartThings Find, tracks your Samsung devices and the SmartTag with an intuitive and clean Google Maps-based interface. As for how the tag works in practice, I found the left behind alerts triggered reliably when I got about three blocks (1,200 feet or so) away when walking and about eight blocks away when driving. That’s far longer than Chipolo’s alerts, a little longer than Apple’s notifications and about on par with Tile’s left-behind feature. When the tag is out of range and you enable Lost Mode, you’ll get an alert when it’s spotted by another Samsung phone. The tag also uses NFC to display your contact info and a custom note to anyone who finds the tracker, regardless of the brand of smartphone they carry. Of course, whoever finds it would need to know to hold it to the back of their phone to get the message, and it was harder to trigger with my iPhone when the tag was in the silicone holder. To test the finding network, I asked a friend (without a phone in their pocket) to wander a half mile away with the tag. About 12 minutes after turning on Lost Mode, I got a message that the SmartTag was “spotted by a nearby device” with a dropped pin. I tapped Navigate in the app, which opened Google Maps and led me to a point directly across a moderately busy street from where my friend was standing. If I’d left the tag behind somewhere I’d recently been, just seeing the location on the map would have been enough to jog my memory as to where I might have dropped my stuff. But if someone had stolen the tagged item and I was wandering the streets trying to get it back, vigilante style, it may not have been precise enough to help. It may not be as accurate as the iPhone-and-AirTag combo, but the SmartTag 2 is a solid entry in the Bluetooth tracker market and a good option if you have a Samsung phone. The slim design and loud ring will help you keep tabs on your wallet. The Tile Slim is louder than both the Pro and the Mate, and nearly equals the loudest tracker we tested, the Chipolo One. It works with both Android and Apple devices and its thick credit card shape fits in the slots of a typical wallet (though it often won’t connect when inside an RFID-blocking wallet). The separation alerts you’ll get if you pay for a Tile subscription activate at about the same distance as the Tile Pro, letting you get around 1,500 feet away before pinging you about a left-behind item. When using an iPhone with Tile trackers, separation alerts rarely came and connectivity between the phone and tracker was spotty at best, even in close proximity. If you use an iPhone, the Chipolo Card Spot is equally loud, runs on Apple’s vast Find My network and consistently gives you a left-behind alert at around 1,200 feet.



Title:  2023 was the year the economics of tech caught up with reality 

As a precocious teen looking to improve my college application, I sat in on a business studies class. I figured taking two extra A-Levels at night school alongside those I took during the day would make me irresistible to admissions tutors. The class I watched examined if it was worth a large factory keeping its own trucks and drivers in-house rather than outsourcing them. The data showed selling the trucks and firing the workers was more expensive in the long run, and yoked the company to the whims of any third-party logistics company in the local area. Not to mention, if you don’t own a mission-critical component of your business, you’re a lot less powerful when negotiating with your suppliers. But the teacher, and the class, all agreed it was smart to sell it all because it made a bigger profit in the quarter and was cheaper for the next two years. These people had never considered if something bad would happen, and how to prepare for it. It was at this point I realized my values were out of step with the commercial orthodoxy and opted not to take the course. I mention this because I’ve always thought the people in the tech industry with all the money are probably halfway savvy about how All Of This Is Meant To Work. I’d told myself that what, to me, appeared illogical and self-defeating was because they were playing a game of six-dimensional chess on a board I was too dim to see. Unless, of course, the economics of our industry are so unmoored from reality that everyone’s just pretending, or deluding themselves. And more than a decade of cheap money and lax regulation means everyone’s behaved a little bit sillier than they should have. Now the lights are coming up and everyone’s looking to see what’s actually going on, there’s nowhere for these apparently smart people to hide. It’s stopped making sense for investors The Silicon Valley mindset is easy to grasp: If you’re lucky enough to have spare cash, put a small bit of it behind some kids with a big idea. All it takes is for one of those bets – emphasis on the word bet – to win and you’ll get a slice of some pretty big profits. In an era where zero interest-rate policies mean it’s almost free to rack up extraordinary debt, it’s a better route than heading to Las Vegas with your 401k. Not to mention the special cachet and attention you can garner by presenting yourself to the world as a “guru.” But you might have noticed that a lot of high-profile bets haven’t been coming off of late, wasting a lot of cash in the process. Take WeWork, which this year filed for Chapter 11 after working its way through $16.9 billion since 2014. What logic can we apply to its main backer, Softbank CEO Masayoshi Son*, to justify him burning the GDP of Jamaica on such a venture? Especially when Regus, which performs the same decidedly un-techy role of renting temporary office space, owns its properties and makes a small but regular profit every non-COVID year, was available to buy outright for a fraction of the cost? How did this amount of money pass from one company to another without any sort of internal or external oversight? And why did he think that WeWork’s nicer interior design and a beer tap on every floor was such a big draw? The only theory that holds water is that Son was so blindsided by promises of vast future profits (from office rental) that he lost any sense of self-restraint. That mix of cheap credit and the promise of unbelievable future returns can be applied across the tech industry, too. It might help explain why the cost of streaming has leapt so high while the catalogs available have shrunk. The studios weren’t hurting for profit in the days before Netflix, but the fact it was valued like a tech company enabled it to rack up huge debts. That led plenty of studios to leap onto the bandwagon in the hope of getting some of that mythical profit. In the early days, the hope was that the sheer number of people paying for content would balance out the low cost. But now growth has stalled and there’s still $14.30 billion of debt, plus an audience with an ever-increasing desire for new content. It’s stopped making sense for consumers The debt swinging around Netflix’s neck, and the necks of those who followed it into the streaming world save for Amazon, Apple and Warner Bros***, is directly related to this gold rush. And it’ll need to be paid off to the investors and banks who handed over billions of dollars in expectation of vast rewards further down the line. Which is why the cost of a standard Netflix subscription has pretty much doubled since 2011 – with Premium plans now costing $23 a month. Given the scattershot nature of streaming libraries and the fact Netflix can’t be your sole source of entertainment, most consumers have more than one subscription going at the same time. That’s been fine, more or less, while times are good, so what happens when the world’s economies all start to slow down and you’re looking to make room in your monthly budget? It’s worth remembering new technologies are expensive, both in cost and how much time and effort you spend to get to grips with them. But while technology has had some world-changing hits in the past – personal computing, the internet, smartphones and, uh, social media – it’s been a while since we’ve had anything that big. But the industry can’t help but keep hyping the next big thing even if it’s obvious to anyone with eyes that it’s not going to be a winner. We’re at the peak of the hype cycle for machine learning, which its boosters tell us will automate us all into obsolescence in a decade or so**. The problem is, whenever you actually sit and try to use a generative AI, the results are underwhelming, so great is the gap between the promise and the reality. Take Google’s new AI which managed to give fake answers to spreadsheet-level questions like who won an Academy Award last year. You can already see the itchy feet of those hoping the Humane Pin will be the Next Big Thing despite its risible introduction video. Consumers lose out here not just because of these expensive boondoggles but because they suck up all the oxygen from everything else. Many of these technologies were designed not to solve real-world problems, of which we have plenty, but to dazzle investors, placate Wall Street and dupe credulous buyers. It doesn’t help that generative AI, like crypto before it, uses a significant amount more energy than it should, exacerbating climate change. Sadly, when all the attention and money shifts to the next thing, we’ll all be poorer for it, both for the folks who were duped into reading machine-written articles about the importance of volleyball, and the folks who got laid off because some genius thought GPT-3 would do a better job without oversight. It’s stopped making sense for workers Embracer Group is a Swedish game publisher that loaded up on debt to buy every small studio and IP it could get its hands on. In 2018, CEO Lars Wingefors told GamesIndustry his company would eschew a “fewer, bigger, better” strategy in favor of a “diversified” lineup. In 2021, it said it had access to more than $2 billion in cash and credit to continue its spending spree, bankrolling a slew of newer, smaller titles. That included reviving TimeSplitters developer Free Radical to start work on a new game in the long-dormant cult series.Two years after that, the company admitted that a deal worth $2 billion in revenue over six years had fallen apart and that it would have to cut costs. Free Radical has now been closed, putting the last two years’ worth of work on the shelf and close to 1,000 people across Embracer have lost their jobs. Across the industry, countless jobs have been lost as even profitable companies look to trim their headcount. Spotify CEO Daniel Ek even said the quiet part out loud when admitting the company “took advantage of the opportunity presented by lower-cost capital” to staff up. Now that the economic situation has shifted, and money isn’t as cheap as it used to be, the company is letting 1,500 people go less than a month before the holidays. Big names who have also trod the same path this year include (deep breath) Amazon (multiple times), ByteDance, LinkedIn (twice), Epic Games, Lyft, Metabook, Dell, Google and Microsoft. Reality’s going to hit us in the face like a shovel When I was a kid, a relative worked for a company that made and sold slot machines for adult gambling. I must have been 10 when he came over and set up a game where he gave me a pound in 2p pieces, which I could wager on the outcome of a deck of cards. He’d rigged the game so that, despite all of the pledges to double my cash as my funds shrunk, I’d wipe out. It was a valuable lesson in why it’s not a smart idea to gamble your money, given by someone who saw it up close and personal every day. The other lesson he taught me was the vow of gratitude he would utter often, which was doubly amusing given his atheism. Whenever there was a bad story in the news, or a tale of corporate woe closer to home, he’d say “there but for the grace of God go I.” Because he knew that so much of what happens in our lives is governed by chance, so it’s pointless to claim it was wisdom. We should always remember that none of us are untouchable, and that the worst phrase in the English language is “what could possibly go wrong?” It’s just a shame that so many of the supposed great minds in the technology industry didn’t get the chance to learn this lesson when they were young enough to appreciate it. * Wikipedia – hardly a symbol of partisanship – has gone studs-in on Son. At the time of writing, his biography says “his reputation as an investor rests almost solely on his $20 million initial investment in Alibaba Group in 2000.” Given the rest of his track record – and the fact he is presently in debt to his own company to the tune of several billion, ouch. ** I do wonder how many of its backers who spend their days worrying about Roko’s Basilisk have thought about how they’ll be treated by the 85 million or so people suddenly forced into serfdom. *** Warner Bros. malaise is more directly related to the debt tied to the various buyouts and sales that has seen it shifted from one corporate parent to another. Not that the streaming wars has helped here, but it's fair to say that its problems are a different realm to those of its peers.



Title:  Here’s everything you should do to up your security before next year 

Be honest: How many times this year have you skipped or scrolled past a much-needed update? Maybe you just wanted to log into Twitter, er, X without setting up multifactor authentication. Putting off these minor inconveniences adds up, and it could lead to an insecure tech setup just waiting to be exploited by an attacker. So, now you're probably spending a few days sleeping in your childhood bed, and wondering when Uncle Dave will stop talking to you about buying gold stocks. There's never been a better time to take care of the less-than-riveting admin work of locking down your digital life. Here's a quick holiday checklist you and your loved ones (including Dave) can spend an hour doing during your holiday downtime to set up for a more secure year. For the most current patches and options, you’ll need to start this security check up by updating all your devices and apps. The companies behind the tech have already done a lot of the work to keep you safe, but it’s your job to make sure that you’re taking full advantage of those updates. I’d recommend starting with operating system updates then apps second because there’s usually some new features reliant on the latest OS within other software. While you’re there, set up automatic updates so that you don’t have to worry about doing this manually in the future. Strong passwords are your first line of defense to keep your accounts safe, but they’re almost impossible to memorize and keep track of. Download a password manager to store this information for you, so that your passwords can be unguessable gibberish that you’ll actually use. Long term, it’s important to change these passwords every 90 days or so, and never to repeat across accounts. A password manager will help remind you of that, and even generate new password ideas for you. Unique and regularly-changing passwords help prevent attacks like credential stuffing, as we’ve seen make headlines in the recent 23andMe data breach. Strong passwords are important, but it's well-known that they aren’t enough to keep unauthorized actors out of your account. Most people are familiar with using a text message code to grant access to an account. If you’re taking time out of your day to set this up, however, I would recommend using a third-party authenticator app or a hardware key for more secure options. Or, for companies that have switched to allowing passkeys at login, that’s usually your best bet. This will be one of the more tedious parts of the checklist, so if you can’t sit down and knock out your major logins now, at least push yourself to make these changes each time you log into a website over the next couple of weeks. Being stuck with family for the holiday might not be your preferred opportunity to make this change, but there's sure to be an upcoming major snowstorm or bout seasonal depression just screaming to be harnessed for your technological well-being. A strong VPN will keep your web browsing private. Whether it’s free or paid for, defaulting to using a VPN adds an extra layer of security to the work you’re doing online. Most have options to use it across different devices, or to run automatically on startup so that you can set it up once and forget about it. I would also recommend switching over to a secure browser like Tor that runs on a privacy-first platform for more sensitive online matters. Of course there’s a catch: VPNs and Tor can both slow down your browsing, or break certain website features. Updates to the services have helped over time, but even if you use it for just a portion of web browsing, some protection is better than none. Keeping up with security news will help you determine what accounts need special attention versus where you can go on autopilot. Once you know whether a breach may have occurred or a password has been leaked, you can quickly make changes to accommodate. Websites already exist to see if you’ve been in a data breach, and most companies have an obligation to tell you if they’ve been impacted. When you also stay up to date on the latest scams and attacks, you know what red flags to look out for in your own inbox to stay proactive. It’s surprisingly easy to stop companies from trading your privacy for cash. On top of getting in the habit of not sharing your cookies or granting location data, you can opt out of working with the top three major data brokers. Axiom, Oracle and Epsilon all have slightly different variations of the same form to fill out so that information like your home address and relatives’ names aren’t being sold for profit. This is a good start to getting your online privacy back, however, it can be more of a headache than just one opt out form. You have to do this frequently to make sure your information hasn’t been readded to any of the broker sites, and if your information has already been sold to marketing companies, it’s too late to undo it. There are subscription service sites that can help track and continuously delete whatever information pops up for you, but starting with just Axiom, Oracle and Epsilon will still be a free, worthwhile step toward more privacy. Get an external hard drive or connect to the cloud and keep all of your data backed up. Do this regularly, so that even if your device quits or gets ransomed by an attacker, you aren't completely screwed. I’d recommend opting for something that can be set up automatically, so that you don’t have to keep constant track of it. That could look like spending the 99 cents per month on extra iCloud storage (or Google Drive or another in-house cloud tool) so that your phone gets backed up each night while you’re asleep. Windows and Mac also both do auto updates to an external drive on desktop, so you can set it and forget it. Alternatively, you could install backup software onto a device so that it’s taken care of by a third party, but that may be less intuitive to set up. Just don’t forget to clean up your data storage every once in a while, too, so that you’re not holding onto useless screenshots or pictures of your ex from years ago that are taking up valuable space. It’s overwhelming to play catch up. Going through a list like this can seem intimidating if you haven’t worried about it before. If you set up automatic updates and backups, it’ll take some of those repeat tasks off your plate. But since you’ll already, hopefully, be setting new passwords once a quarter, you can do a quick check up on your other security measures too. See if you’ve been a victim of a breach or identity theft, keep telling data brokers to get their hands off your information and find out if new VPNs or other software has been released that could make your security setup more seamless. Making it a part of the routine is much easier than annual sprees, and can help you catch a cybersecurity problem before it becomes unmanageable.



Title:  Apple Watch Series 9 and Ultra 2 sales paused in the US due to a patent dispute 

If you're planning to buy an Apple Watch Series 9 or Apple Watch Ultra 2, you may want to act quickly. Apple says it will soon halt sales of both devices in the US due to a International Trade Commission (ITC) ban, which is related to a patent dispute over the wearables' blood oxygen sensor. Sales will be suspended online this week and at Apple retail locations after December 24. "A Presidential Review Period is in progress regarding an order from the US International Trade Commission on a technical intellectual property dispute pertaining to Apple Watch devices containing the Blood Oxygen feature," Apple told Engadget in a statement. "While the review period will not end until December 25, Apple is preemptively taking steps to comply should the ruling stand. This includes pausing sales of the Apple Watch Series 9 and Apple Watch Ultra 2 from Apple.com starting December 21, and from Apple retail locations after December 24." The Apple Watch SE will remain available for purchase as it doesn't have a blood oxygen sensor. Previously purchased Apple Watch units that include the blood oxygen feature are unaffected (the Apple Watch Series 6 was the company's first device to offer blood-oxygen monitoring). The Apple Watch Series 9 and Watch Ultra 2 will still be available to buy outside of the US. Medical tech company Masimo sued Apple in 2021 over alleged violations of patents related to light-based blood-oxygen monitoring. In October, the ITC upheld a judge's ruling from earlier this year that the Apple Watch did violate Masimo's patents. The ITC's order blocks all Apple Watch Series 9 and Ultra 2 imports to the US after December 25. Other retailers, such as Amazon and Best Buy, can continue to sell the devices for the time being, as 9to5 Mac first reported. Following the ITC's decision, the case went to the White House for a 60-day Presidential Review Period. Although President Biden has one more week to decide whether to veto the ITC ruling, Apple has opted to preemptively comply with the commission's decision. Apple plans to lodge an appeal with the Federal Circuit. It can also reach a settlement with Masimo or issue software updates that nullify patent infringements (likely by deactivating blood oxygen features). Apple will provide more information on the situation after the Presidential Review Period expires on December 25. The US Trade Representative will also review the ITC's order. It has the option to disapprove of the ITC’s action due to policy reasons. "Apple’s teams work tirelessly to create products and services that empower users with industry-leading health, wellness, and safety features," the company said. "Apple strongly disagrees with the order and is pursuing a range of legal and technical options to ensure that Apple Watch is available to customers. Should the order stand, Apple will continue to take all measures to return Apple Watch Series 9 and Apple Watch Ultra 2 to customers in the US as soon as possible.” Masimo has released its own smartwatch that Apple claims is an Apple Watch knockoff. Apple filed two patent infringement suits of its own against Masimo in October 2022, asserting that it copied patented Apple Watch features.



Title:  What we bought: Our favorite gadgets of 2023 

Engadget staffers test and review tons of gadgets every year, and we also buy a lot of things for ourselves. In 2023, some of us upgraded our at-home coffee-making setup, splurged on fancy keyboards and digital pianos and even made our homes a bit smarter with things like app-controlled litter boxes. But there are plenty of other things we've bought and loved this year that have yet to make it on the site. Here, our staff takes a look back at the things they've personally purchased this year that they want to gush about a bit more before 2023 is up. There was never any doubt about whether I, a Tamagotchi fanatic, would be getting the Tamagtochi Uni. Bandai announced the new, Wi-Fi enabled virtual pet toy in June, and when pre-orders opened the following month, I bought two. Since then, it’s become the only device I use as much as my phone. On top of the usual caretaking tasks Tamagotchi is known for, the Uni has some cute new activities. It’s wearable as a watch (as Tamagotchi was originally envisioned to be), and has basic motion sensing capabilities to power features like Tama Walks. During a Tama Walk, your character can collect items that you can later use to craft accessories. There’s also a built-in “Tamaverse” where your character can meet other users’ Tamagotchis from around the world, buy and display outfits, travel and partake in global Tama Arena events. These are competitive minigame challenges that last for one week, and they add an element of freshness to the overall gameplay. There are new characters to love, too, like the inexplicably buff-but-bashful shark, Shykutchi. Despite these added perks, it can feel a bit boring at times — like there should be more to do in the day-to-day beyond feeding, playing the same repetitive mini-games and cleaning up poop. One of those mini-games, the motion-based “Dancing” game, I never even play because it requires you wave your arms around and the device doesn’t accurately capture the movement more than half of the time. But the fact that it has Wi-Fi and thus receives software updates means there’s so much potential for the experience to keep expanding, and we’ve already started to see the beginnings of this. The wristband is removable so you don’t have to wear it as a watch — but, as goofy as it may look to some, I almost always do. And it charges via USB-C, which is huge for convenience. Uni feels like a fresh interpretation of the classic Tamagotchi for today’s world, and half a year into use, I still love it. – Cheyenne MacDonald, Weekend Editor Having grown weary of paying way too much money for aggressively mediocre meals through the food delivery apps, I set about a few years ago teaching myself to cook. That process has involved both increasing my skill in the kitchen as well as slowly updating my collection of 50-year-old hand-me-down tools that I started with. This year’s purchase was a great one: the Cuisinart 8 Cup Food Processor, which I picked up to replace my fading Osterizer Imperial blender. Whereas the Osterizer had ten separate and often confusing settings for deconstructing ingredients to various levels, the Cuisinart is far more straightforward: the options are high, low and pulse and it turns out I don’t actually need more than that. A couple quick pulses is enough to break up nuts for my baking projects; a few seconds on low will diminish whole tomatoes into puree for soups; and 45 seconds on high creates pasta dough from a cup and a quarter of flour, an egg and a pinch of salt. I also don’t need to pull out my mandolin anymore because any items that need shredding now get handled by the Cuisinart using its swappable shredding and slicing blades. Best of all, my knuckle skin stays where it should be — on my knuckles. That alone makes the Cuisinart 8-cup food processor worth its $100 price tag. — Andrew Tarantola, Senior Reporter Not to be that person, but I don’t know if I could go a day without listening to music. You might be surprised to learn, then, that I hadn’t owned a speaker since 2020 when the small device I had — unbeknownst to me — fell out of the car one winter night into my yard and froze in a pile of snow. Since then, I’ve turned to my iPhone 12 or M1-powered MacBook Air for music, telling myself (or really, lying to myself) that I’m not missing out . I’ve always loved the look of Marshall speakers, and when I saw that the company was running a sale earlier this summer, I knew it was my chance to upgrade. I picked up the portable Willen speaker — the smallest of Marshall’s offerings at about two-thirds of a pound and four inches around — for $99, down from $119. After a bit of waffling and sending a few pictures to friends for opinions, I opted for the cream exterior and gold front rather than the classic all-black look. Not to get all Love Actually about it before the holidays, but I would happily hold up a sign to Marshall’s Willen speaker with the words, “To me, you are perfect.” The sound quality is great and it stays connected to my phone regardless of where I go in my little house (the range is 30 feet). Plus, the battery is great, with a playtime of over 15 hours and a quick charge (three hours to 100 percent) with any USB-C cable I have lying around. I brought the Willen to my parents’ place for a family gathering, and my brother, who isn’t easily impressed, loved it so much that he asked for it as a birthday present. Now, my mom has joined in, too (though with the black model) and uses it over her previously adored Alexa speaker. Whether sitting on my kitchen windowsill while I cook or on my dresser as I read a good book at night, this small speaker makes my day-to-day life better. Also, it just looks really lovely. — Sarah Fielding, Contributing Reporter After four years of having our rescue cat, it finally occurred to me to get her an automatic feeder. Why didn’t it beforehand, you may ask? We fed her wet and dry food, but after a vet recommended we switch up her dry food, she basically acts like the wet food doesn’t exist. She loves her new dry food medley, and that’s prime for an automatic feeder. Also, my husband and I go on a few short trips every year to visit family, and we know our cat will be just fine in our home for a couple of nights, provided she has ample amounts of water and food. To make this easier for us and our cat, we bought the Wi-Fi-connected Petlibro feeder right before we got married and were to go on a honeymoon. After spending 10 minutes hooking the device up to our home Wi-Fi and filling it with food, I asked myself why didn’t I buy this thing sooner. From the get-go, Petlibro’s machine worked as promised, dishing out exact portions of food to our cat at specific times throughout the day. All of those details I programmed with the device’s companion mobile app, which lets you set feeding schedules and portion sizes, plus manually “feed” your furry friend at any time. Conversely, I can also skip one of my cat’s three scheduled daily feedings if I notice she didn’t eat all of her breakfast one morning. Since we started using the Petlibro feeder, we haven’t had to deal with any power or Wi-Fi outages. But the feeder has a failsafe, too: a few D batteries inserted into the bottom of the machine allows it to keep its feeding schedule even in the event of a blackout. The convenience of this device was enough to sell me, but that extra feature put it over the edge and made it one of the best things I’ve bought this year and certainly one of the best purchases I’ve ever made for my cat. – Valentina Palladino, Senior Commerce Editor I typically write for work using a 49-inch ultra-wide monitor. This lets me keep browser tabs, Slack, notes and drafts all within view at the same time. But if I ever want to work from elsewhere, my laptop screen feels suffocating by comparison. So, I bought the $449 Xreal Air 2 Pro glasses to see if they could give me a virtual (and portable) version of my home setup. When you plug the glasses into a host device, you’ll see a private virtual display — like a more primitive version of what Apple’s $3,500 Vision Pro will do. From there, you can make adjustments: you can float a 320-inch monitor in front of your face while playing your PS5 as your partner watches something on TV, or work with three private MacBook screens on a flight. One of my favorite uses has been lying on the couch, gazing comfortably at the ceiling as I stream a show or play a game. Testing them at home with my laptop convinced me they’ll suit my needs. I wrote articles on them for an entire week without any big frustrations (or editor complaints). And I love that, unlike full VR headsets, the Xreal Air 2 Pro can pass for an unusually thick pair of sunglasses. You’re less likely to be gawked at in public, they’re more portable and you still get a direct view of your environment (rather than a camera feed). This model even lets you dim the real world with the tap of a button, a feature that works strikingly well. There are some downsides, though. The glasses have a somewhat kludgy setup, their 46-degree field of view prevents the illusion from feeling seamless and a cable juts from the glasses’ left arm. And to plant virtual screens in a fixed spot, you need the $119 Xreal Beam, an iPod-looking accessory wired between the glasses and host device, unlocking spatial tricks and whirring its loud-ass fan. Ultimately, I’d only recommend them if you’re in a similar situation as I was and can roll with some early adopter quibbles. But, unlike Apple’s upcoming reality machine, at least you don’t have to pay the equivalent of a nice vacation to catch a glimpse of the future. — Will Shanklin, Contributing Reporter I’m a huge fan of smart lights. Ever since switching away from dumb bulbs years ago, I’ve been content to rely on voice controls, automations or a smartphone app to control their behavior. After all, half the fun is just sitting on the couch and seeing what kind of silly color combos you can come up with. But now that my son is getting older, I wanted to give him a way to control the lights in his room without having to look at a screen or talk to a smart speaker. That prompted me to buy the Philips Hue Tap Dial switch. It has four programmable buttons that can change the settings of one light or an entire room with a single touch, plus a dimmer wheel for easily adjusting brightness. This makes having specific scenes set for various situations (wakeup, playtime, bedtime and a random rainbow one for funsies) a breeze, which helps a lot when it comes to maintaining a consistent schedule for the kiddo. The Tap Dial is compact and easy to move around the room so it’s never out of reach and, while we don’t use it, the switch also comes with a backplate so you can mount it on a wall. But most importantly, it’s so simple even a toddler can use it. And while it does rely on regular batteries, a single CR2032 cell is cheap (one comes pre-installed) and should last for around two years. The small downsides are that it’s a bit pricey at $50 bucks a pop and that it only works with Hue lights. But perhaps the biggest surprise is that, while I didn’t think I needed physical switches for my smart lights, after having a Tap Dial for a few months I’m already planning on buying more for all the other rooms in my home. – Sam Rutherford, Senior Reporter I’ve been searching for the perfect solution for bathroom-based singalongs for a while. Sure, you can plop any old speaker on a shelf, but my bathroom isn’t exactly spacious and I wanted something that actually sits in the shower so music wouldn’t have to compete with both the curtain and the rushing water. There are some problems, however, with placing an electronics device in a rectangular box that constantly fills with water. Where do you put it and how do you safely power it? Earlier this year, however, my fevered, late-night Googling bore fruit. I found the Ampere Shower Power, a Bluetooth speaker that offers novel solutions to both of those problems. It screws in over the shower head, so there’s no heavy speaker being held up by the dangerous magic of a single adhesive strip. Now here’s the fun part: it charges via the magic of hydroelectric power. The force of the water rushing through the pipe and into the speaker is what gives it juice — and it actually works. It took literally 45 seconds to set up. Just twist off the old shower head, attach the speaker and twist the head back on. It is rather large and heavy, so there could be issues depending on the size and design of your shower head. But once you get it going it works like any other Bluetooth speaker. The cylindrical design delivers rich audio that is loud enough to overtake the roar of the shower. The audio quality is better than I expected and the speaker runs continuously, so long as it has a steady stream of water for power (baths are out). I can’t think of a bad thing to say about it other than the price ($100) might be prohibitive for such a niche use. I’m glad that I splurged, though, to make my morning routine a bit more fun. — Lawrence Bonk, Contributing Reporter I’ve dove headfirst into retro game and console collecting over the past few years, but the problem with old consoles is that they weren’t built to work on modern displays. I can play them with simple HDMI adapters, sure, but I’m an A/V snob, so the resulting image is often too smudgy, imprecise or laggy for me to truly enjoy. To solve this incredibly first-world problem, I bought the RetroTink 5X-Pro, a little black box largely produced by one engineer that can hook up to vintage consoles and present a cleaner and more faithful image on HD displays. It can scale up to 1440p and keeps latency low enough to not be a bother. Best of all, it pretty much just works the moment you connect your cables. I hooked it into a GameCube, selected a resolution and played Star Wars Rogue Squadron II: Rogue Leader and Donkey Kong Jungle Beat — bongos included, much to my wife’s amusement — like it was still 2004. Does this look as nice as a shiny new PS5 game? Of course not. But not needing a mammoth CRT to enjoy these blasts of nostalgia is a blessing. There’s a buffet of additional settings you can tweak to fine-tune the image, but you don’t need to understand them to just play your game. The downside? The 5X-Pro costs $325, so it’s strictly for sickos (or “retro gaming enthusiasts”). But to me (a self-proclaimed sicko), it’s been money well spent. If you’re getting on this road, too, something like the 5X-Pro (or the new 4K model) could help you avoid the technical hurdles to enjoying old games. — Jeff Dunn, Senior Commerce Writer A few years ago, I bought a heavy-duty canister vacuum that can be used for both wet and dry dirt. It’s sturdy and powerful, but it’s also bulky and needs to be plugged in. Since it takes up quite a bit of space, I keep it in a closet under the stairs, which is pretty hard to reach. That means for every day cleaning, I just bust out my trusty Filipino walis instead of reaching for the vacuum. As that decade-old meme says: Ain’t nobody got time for that. Then a few months ago, I saw a pretty huge sale on the Dyson V8 Slim Fluffy stick vacuum and decided to buy it after looking into its specs. It’s not as powerful as the brand’s more expensive stick vacuums, but it’s small and can be tucked into a corner. This model also has a shorter stem than its peers, which is perfect for me. Plus, it’s light and doesn’t need to be plugged in, which means it doesn’t have the “friction points” preventing me from using my canister vacuum as often as I’d like. I live right beside a busy road, and dirt gets in even if my doors are always closed and I never open my windows. I also have a dog that sheds so much, I could weave a coat and a hat from all her loose fur. It can be a struggle keeping my house clean, but not so much that I’m forced to take out my canister vacuum every single day. The stick vacuum, however, I could easily grab from its corner and start cleaning anytime I want to. I just need to empty its clear bin every couple of days so the tube doesn’t get clogged. Nine months after buying the V8 Slim Fluffy, I can say that it was worth it. I haven’t touched a walis in months — and while I feel kinda bad for my poor, neglected canister vacuum, I’m hoping the V8 lasts me for years to come. — Marielle Moon, Contributing Reporter As much as I love my iPhone, iPad, MacBook Air and myriad other Apple devices, I didn’t think I needed an Apple TV in my life. My Amazon Fire TV could already play back all the shows and movies I needed. I didn't need to drop $130 on something just because it has an Apple logo on it. But then my Fire TV started acting up. I’d try to beam photos from my iPhone using AirPlay and it would struggle to find the TV until I rebooted both devices. Videos would stutter and freeze, too. So when a refurbished Apple TV 4K showed up on eBay for more than $40 off, I bought one impulsively. I can’t claim that it changed my life, but it definitely made a big difference. Generally, it doesn’t matter if your streaming device’s specs are subpar or if the software is crummy as long as it gets entirely out of the way once you hit play. But the Apple TV’s specs and software are the opposite of crummy. It’s powered by the same chip that’s in the iPhone 14 and runs tvOS, an operating system that looks and feels miles ahead of whatever passes off as software on the Fire TV. And it helps that unlike the Fire TV, I never see a single ad. Everything just flows, whether I am casually browsing through a grid of apps deciding what to watch next or using the Apple TV’s gorgeous remote to quickly flick through everything I have open. I wasn’t expecting to have so much fun with the Apple TV’s UI because the point of plonking yourself in front of a giant display is to watch stuff, not fiddle around with an operating system. My favorite Apple TV feature, however, has nothing to do with watching TV. It’s the ability to take FaceTime calls on the largest screen in my house, while using my iPhone as a camera. For this brand new expat with family on the other side of the world, that alone is worth the price. — Pranav Dixit, Senior News Editor 2023 marked my first full year at Engadget, and I pretty quickly realized testing smart home devices was going to be a big part of my job. I felt I needed each of the three major smart speakers — Apple’s HomePod mini, Google’s Nest Mini and Amazon’s Echo Dot — to test things properly, so I got them all. That gave me a unique perspective from which to judge the three major assistants. Overall, I’m most impressed with Alexa on the Echo Dot, which is capable, responds quickly and generally gets what I’m asking it to do. I find the “personality” tidbits enjoyable, like when it tells me to have a nice day after I thank it for a weather forecast. I have to stop myself from referring to the AI as she, recalling Sister Simone from Mrs. Davis: “Not her, it.” But when Alexa asks whether I’d like to hear about an Amazon sale, I'm reminded exactly what I’ve invited into my home. As for the HomePod mini, it offers decent audio for music, but I’m disappointed in Siri’s abilities as a smart assistant. The first hurdle is getting it to pick which device should answer. My iPhone, Apple Watch and HomePod all light up when I call upon the assistant and then… nothing. When it does answer, even a simple question like “What is 25 degrees Celsius in Fahrenheit?” triggers Siri to suggest I look for the answer on my iPhone. Not very helpful. Finally, the Nest Mini with the Google Assistant does a great job of answering reference questions and I even use it to rattle off simple recipes in the kitchen. But the Assistant’s smart home control, while not incapable, is awkward: it often gets confused or it unnecessarily repeats a request, Perd Hapley style, before performing it. — Amy Skorheim, Commerce Writer This year, I discovered the JCLOUD Smart Scent Air Machine Pro and it blew my mind. Mixing and matching scents has always been my thing, and when it comes to my home, I’m adamant the house should always smell like something. Whether it’s crisp linen, lavender or freshly baked treats (even when I’m too lazy to actually bake). I always had diffusers, both water and waterless, throughout the house — I thought that was the only way to achieve the ambiance I wanted, but this smart scent machine has taken things to a whole new level. Instead of constantly refilling water diffusers, the scent machine fills the entire house all at once with the smell of the essential oil of your choosing — no water required. Well, it’ll fill most of the house, depending on the size of your space. JCLOUD has several models, but this one covers 4,500 square feet, which should be enough for most homes. It comes with a 500ml tank for you to fill with your favorite oils, like those you’d smell at a luxury hotel. It uses cold air technology to push scent where it needs to go, and there’s an app to control how often the machine diffuses. For more intense coverage, you can connect the machine to your HVAC system and increase the run time. I’m currently running the White Tea Luxury essential oil, but there are so many options out there and I'm excited to try them all. — Stephanie Barnes, Contributing Reporter There were many things we didn’t know how to use when my husband and I moved into our first home in 2022. The sprinkler system was one of them; neither of us had grown up with sprinklers, so aside from getting a professional to open and close the system each year, we were hesitant to touch the imposing control box in our boiler room. As time went on and we gained more confidence as homeowners, we decided to upgrade that old plastic box to a plastic box we could control from our phones. We ultimately bought the B-Hyve smart sprinkler control system, which took all of 15 minutes to install and another five minutes to program to our hearts’ content. The most intimidating part about the setup process was properly connecting all of the sprinkler zone wires to the correct spaces in the new box, but everything is color-coded, making it pretty easy. Once plugged in and connected to our Wi-Fi, we both downloaded the B-Hyve mobile app and paired it with the new box. There are physical buttons to set watering schedules, manually shut off the system and more, but you can do all of that from the app as well. As to be expected, we haven’t touched the box since installation, preferring to use our phones for everything. We set up a daily watering schedule for the wee hours of the morning that then ran without a hitch all summer. My husband had fun manually watering different zones during the first few days, but then fell back on the system’s like-clockwork automatic routines. But my favorite perk is B-Hyve’s “WeatherSense” feature that allows it to monitor weather forecast data and automatically pause watering before it’s going to rain. Any time that happened, I got an alert on my phone a few hours before the scheduled watering was to be skipped. Features like that help us save on water costs, while also making sure we don’t drown any of our plants. So often, smart home gadgets can be hit or miss and you really don’t know which it will be until after you buy the thing. But B-Hyve is definitely a hit in our house and it’s one of the best upgrades we’ve made to our home since moving in. – V.P.



Title:  Adobe terminates its $20 billion Figma acquisition amid regulatory scrutiny 

Adobe is abandoning its planned $20 billion acquisition of Figma after the companies determined that there was no clear path to obtaining approval from UK and European Union regulators. The two sides have signed an agreement that fully resolves all aspects of the Adobe-Figma merger termination. Adobe will pay the collaborative design platform a previously agreed $1 billion termination fee after failing to overcome regulatory hurdles. In November, the UK's Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) and the European Commission both cited concerns over the proposed acquisition's impact on competition. The CMA said in its provisional findings that that the merger would “eliminate competition between two main competitors.” The watchdog said it was considering either blocking the deal or requiring Adobe to sell Figma's core product, Figma Design, along with Adobe XD. Earlier on Monday, Adobe claimed that it wouldn't offer the CMA any potential remedies. “It is clear that no realistic remedy would satisfy the concerns the CMA is maintaining,” an Adobe spokesperson told Bloomberg. “We believe that the best path forward is to continue our ongoing engagement with the CMA on the merits.” Last month, the EC sent Adobe a Statement of Objections, in which it warned the company that its planned purchase of Figma "may reduce competition in the global markets for the supply of interactive product design software and of other creative design software," such as vector editing tools (i.e. Illustrator and its ilk) and Photoshop-style raster editing tools. The EC planned to make a final decision on the merger by February 5. Adobe had indicated it was willing to offer possible remedies to appease European regulators, but it appears that's no longer the case. “Adobe and Figma strongly disagree with the recent regulatory findings, but we believe it is in our respective best interests to move forward independently,” Shantanu Narayen, Adobe chair and CEO, said in a statement. “While Adobe and Figma shared a vision to jointly redefine the future of creativity and productivity, we continue to be well positioned to capitalize on our massive market opportunity and mission to change the world through personalized digital experiences.” Adobe also anticipated a potential lawsuit from the US Department of Justice in an attempt to block the deal Stateside. The company and Figma reportedly met with DOJ officials last week to try and secure approval for their merger.



Title:  The Morning After: Apple tests App Store discounts 

Apple says it’s testing a new App Store feature called contingent pricing to lure customers into cheaper subscriptions based on their other purchases. This contingent pricing model will let developers offer discounts to customers who already have subscriptions to other services, be it those developers’ own apps or connected partner apps. According to 9to5Mac, Apple says these bundled discounts will be highly visible to customers both on the App Store and “in off-platform marketing channels” — so elsewhere too. It’s starting with a select group of participants before rolling out to more developers “in the coming months.” It’s been a year of increased scrutiny into Apple’s App Store and how it handles in-app purchases. Just this fall, Apple asked the Supreme Court to reverse the previous ruling that required it to allow developers to use outside payment systems, circumventing Apple’s 30 percent transaction fee. This is a way, of sorts, to get back in developers’ good graces. — Mat Smith These tomatoes were lost on the International Space Station for almost a year Activision Blizzard will pay $54 million to settle California’s gender discrimination lawsuit Amazon boosts its satellite internet network with the help of space lasers A One Piece anime remake is in the works from Netflix ​​You can get these reports delivered daily direct to your inbox. Subscribe right here! According to Larian Studios founder Swen Vincke in an interview with IGN, Game of the Year, Baldur’s Gate 3, won’t come to Microsoft’s Game Pass. Vincke also noted this was always the plan, and the title had never been considered for Microsoft’s subscription gaming platform. Vincke says Baldur’s Gate 3 is a “big game” available for a “fair price.” He also touted the title’s lack of microtransactions and its complete story, saying “you get what you pay for.” Continue reading. Meta Quest users can now write reports, edit spreadsheets and create presentations — if they even want to do any of those tasks on a VR headset. Support for the basic Microsoft Office suite has arrived on the original Oculus Quest, the Meta Quest 2, the Quest Pro and the Quest 3. Users can now download Microsoft Word, Excel and PowerPoint from the Meta Quest store for free. That said, typing on the Quest’s onscreen keyboard is not particularly easy, so you might want to bring your Bluetooth keyboard along for virtual office hours. Continue reading. This week, Engadget Senior Editor Jessica Conditt joins Cherlynn and Devindra to talk about the death of E3 and what it means for the gaming industry. They also explore some of the highlights (and low points) of last week’s Game Awards, which couldn’t quite balance celebrating video games and functioning as a marketing tool. We’re particularly excited for Light No Fire, the next ambitious game from the folks behind No Man’s Sky. (Oh, you should check out Jessica’s video on the subject.) Listen here. Chinese manufacturer Nio is about to start selling an EV with a “semi-solid state” 150kWh battery (140kWh usable). That’s the biggest battery of any passenger EV so far. Nio CEO William Li drove a prototype version of the ET7 1,044km (650 miles) in 14 hours, a distance surpassing many gas-powered vehicles. The ET7’s 150kWh battery will only be available on a lease separate from the car, much as we’ve seen with some cars sold in Europe. We’re unlikely to see this specific battery pack in the US, however. With the Biden administration’s latest rules, some US cars, like Tesla’s Model 3 Long Range, that use specific Chinese battery components will no longer receive the full $7,500 tax credit. Continue reading.



Title:  EU takes action against X over illegal content and disinformation 

It might be ending 2023 with a new name, but X (formerly Twitter) is also capping off a year of criticism and legal action with even more condemnation. The European Commission has announced it's opening formal infringement proceedings into X's operation and potential violations of the Digital Services Act (DSA). Thierry Breton, the European commissioner for internal market ironically shared the news on X, detailing the platform's suspected breach of obligations to be transparent and to counter illegal content. X's potentially "deceptive design" is also being investigated. In its press release, the European Commission states that it will look to X's Community Notes feature to determine whether it's effective enough in "mitigating risks" to "civic discourse and electoral processes." It'll also address "suspected shortcomings" in X's decision to limit access to its data firehose, which could negatively affect researchers and other public bodies. The company's advertising platform is in the Commission's crosshairs, too, as is the "suspected deceptive design" of features like paid checkmarks. In February 2023, all online services operating in the EU had to declare their size to determine if they were a Very Large Online Platform (VLOP). A VLOP is any platform with over 45 million users across the EU. Any company designated as a VLOP had four months to comply with the DSA. These measures include establishing a specific point of contact, transparency in advertising and content moderation and clear, user-friendly terms and conditions. It also requires identifying and mitigating risks such as illegal content, gender-based violence and protecting minors. Other logistical stipulations include permitting vetted researchers to access data that informs about systemic risks in the EU, sharing data with the Commission and having an independent audit annually. The Commission's actions follow a risk assessment report X submitted in September, a transparency report the platform published in November and ongoing concerns about how X is handling — or mishandling, for that matter — content about the Israel-Hamas War. Breton sent a letter to Elon Musk about the platform's responsibility to moderate posts in line with the DSA. The European Union opened an investigation into X's handling shortly after. Today we open formal infringement proceedings against @X :⚠️ Suspected breach of obligations to counter #IllegalContent and #Disinformation⚠️ Suspected breach of #Transparency obligations ⚠️ Suspected #DeceptiveDesign of user interface#DSA pic.twitter.com/NxKIif603k — Thierry Breton (@ThierryBreton) December 18, 2023 In a statement, Breton explained that the newly announced proceedings show "the time of big online platforms behaving like they are 'too big to care' has come to an end." He continued: "We now have clear rules, ex ante obligations, strong oversight, speedy enforcement, and deterrent sanctions and we will make full use of our toolbox to protect our citizens and democracies." This instance marks the first time the Commission has opened formal proceedings to enforce these EU regulations.



Title:  US lawmakers call for DOJ probe into Apple's blocking of Beeper's iMessage app 

A bipartisan group of US senators and representatives have urged the Department of Justice to investigate whether Apple violated antitrust laws by attempting to block Beeper Mini's access to iMessage. Senators Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) and Mike Lee (R-UT), along with Representatives Jerry Nadler (D-NY) and Ken Buck (R-CO), have asked an assistant attorney general to look into “potentially anticompetitive conduct” by Apple. There have been a number of efforts in recent months to provide Android users with access to iMessage via workarounds. Earlier this month, Beeper said it was able to reverse engineer the iMessage protocol and support it on Android devices. Within a couple of days, Beeper Mini's iMessage integration was acting up and Apple (without elaborating too much) soon confirmed it had blocked an iMessage exploit. It didn't take long for Beeper to find yet another way to get iMessage working on Android, though this time it required an Apple ID. Last week, the company said it suspected Apple was "deliberately blocking iMessages from being delivered" to around five percent of Beeper Mini users and that it was working on a solution. The back and forth between Beeper and Apple caught the attention of Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA). "Green bubble texts are less secure. So why would Apple block a new app allowing Android users to chat with iPhone users on iMessage? Big Tech executives are protecting profits by squashing competitors," Warren wrote on X. "Chatting between different platforms should be easy and secure." Last year, Apple CEO Tim Cook responded to a question about improving iOS-Android communication compatibility by telling a journalist to "buy your mom an iPhone." Senator @amyklobuchar + @SenMikeLee + @RepJerryNadler @RepKenBuck sent this to DOJ regarding ongoing fight betwn Beeper Mini vs Apple “to investigate whether this potentially anticompetitive conduct by Apple violated antitrust laws.” I’ll have the full story on @CBSMornings tmrw pic.twitter.com/pj6ef432TK — Jo Ling Kent (@jolingkent) December 18, 2023 "Interoperability and interconnection have long been key drivers of competition and consumer choice in communications services," lawmakers noted in their letter to the DOJ. "But consumers will never benefit from competition if dominant firms are allowed to snuff out that competition at its incipiency." As such, the officials are "concerned that Apple's recent actions to disable Beeper Mini harm competition, eliminate choices for consumers and will discourage future innovation and investment in interoperable messaging services. We also fear these types of tactics may more broadly chill future investment and innovation from those that seek to compete with existing digital gatekeepers. Thus, we refer this matter to the Antitrust Division to investigate whether this potentially anticompetitive conduct by Apple violated the antitrust laws." Apple has made at least one commitment to improving messaging interoperability. The company has pledged to support the RCS protocol starting in 2024, after years of Google openly pressuring Apple to do so. Adopting RCS will mean that messaging between iPhone and Android will be more secure than SMS and allow for higher-quality media sharing.



Title:  Beats headphones and earbuds are up to 49 percent off right now 

The winter months are ripe with long journeys — whether through a road trip to a relative's house or a flight somewhere warm — and require good quality music to get through them. Achieving this is quite a bit cheaper right now, with the Beats Studio Buds dropping to an all-time low of $80 from $150. The 47 percent discount is available on every color, from Black to Sunset Pink. They're currently 47 percent off.  Beats Studio Buds are a solid option for noise-canceling earbuds and — even more so now — are much more affordable than competitors like AirPods. They have IPX4 sweat and water resistance, three soft ear tip sizes and eight hours of battery life or 24 hours with the charging case. Android users can download the Beats app to see stats and updates, while this technology is built in for iOS users. The Studio Buds aren't Beats' only good deal to check out right now. The Beats Fit Pro is 20 percent off, dropping to $160 from $200 in every color except Moon. The secure wing-tipped earbuds can last six hours on a single charge or 24 hours with the case and add adaptive EQ to the list of listening modes. Plus, they're also IPX4 sweat and water-resistant. Then there's the Beats Studio Pro headphones, available for $180, down from $350 — a 49 percent discount. The sale price increases to $205 when adding in two years of AppleCare+. The Studio Pro headphones have 40 hours of battery life and can get another four hours with just a 10-minute charge. The on-ear buttons can activate Siri, accept calls or control the music. The Beats Fit Pro and Studio Pro are both only $10 off their all-time low prices. Follow @EngadgetDeals on Twitter and subscribe to the Engadget Deals newsletter for the latest tech deals and buying advice.



Title:  Amazon's deal to make Warhammer 40,000 movies and TV shows is done 

Amazon and Games Workshop have confirmed they're working on TV shows and movies based on Warhammer 40,000. The news comes 12 months after the two sides reached an agreement in principle to develop adaptations of the miniature wargame for big and small screens. The companies have now inked a full agreement, which gives Amazon the exclusive rights to develop films and TV shows based on the intellectual property. In turn, the adaptations could help Games Workshop attract new Warhammer 40K tabletop players. Games Workshop says an "elite band" of screenwriters is coming together to create the shows and movies. Assisting them will be Henry Cavill, a long-time Warhammer 40K fan, who will be an executive producer and perhaps star in some of the TV shows and films. Don't expect to see a Warhammer movie hitting Prime Video anytime soon, though. As Games Workshop notes, it typically takes at least a couple of years for a project to go from the development phase to something you can actually watch. Still, the ball is officially rolling on Amazon's Warhammer adaptations. Games Workshop says it will share some details about what's in store as soon as it's able.



Title:  A Chinese EV squeezed 650 miles of range from its 150 kWh battery 

An EV from Chinese manufacturer Nio will soon go on sale with a "semi-solid state" 150kWh battery (140kWh usable) that's the largest in any passenger car, Car News China reported. To show much range that will deliver, Nio CEO William Li drove a prototype version of the ET7 1,044km (650 miles) in 14 hours, a distance surpassing many gas-powered vehicles. The test was run in relatively cool temperatures (between 28 – 54 F) and livestreamed. Driving was done mainly in semi-autonomous (or Navigate-on-Pilot+, as Nio calls it), and speed-limited to 90 km/h (56 MPH). The average speed was 83.9 km/h (a respectable 52.4 MPH), with a travel time of 12.4 hours excluding stops. "The completion of this endurance challenge proves the product power of the 150kWh ultra-long endurance battery pack," said Li in a Weibo post (Google translation). "More importantly, all models on sale can be flexibly upgraded to 150kWh batteries through the Nio battery swap system." In fact, the ET7's 150kWh battery will only be available on a lease separate from the car, much as we've seen with some cars sold in Europe. Previously, the company said that the battery alone would cost as much as an entire car (the company's entry-level ET5 EV), or around $42,000. Manufactured by WeLion New Energy Technology, the battery has a single-cell energy density of 360 Wh/kg or 260 Wh/kg for the entire pack (Tesla's latest cells are under 300 Wh/kg). Semi-solid state batteries use gel, clay or resin electrolytes, offering greater energy density and fire-resistance than current batteries. However, they're still far from the promised land of full solid-state batteries, which could feasibly double energy density. We likely won't see the 150kWh battery pack stateside, though. With the Biden administration's latest rules, some US cars like Tesla's Model 3 Long Range that use specific Chinese battery components will no longer receive the full $7,500 tax credit. Nio is a luxury EV manufacturer in China that offers vehicles without a battery, letting you sign up to a battery-as-a-service (BAAS) monthly subscription. That service also allows you to swap out your battery at any time for a larger one.



Title:  An electric car completed the world's first-ever drive from the North to the South Pole 

Earlier today, Scottish adventurers Chris and Julie Ramsey were finally able to announce their completion of the nine-month, 17,000-mile "Pole To Pole EV" expedition, the world's first drive from the 1823 Magnetic North Pole to South Pole — on an electric car, no less. The couple actually reached their destination on December 15 (Friday), but they could only share the news after re-establishing satellite connection later. This feat was achieved using a Nissan Ariya e-4ORCE electric vehicle, which was modified by Icelandic specialist Arctic Trucks — mainly with larger 39-inch tires plus matching wheel arches, along with some ice-friendly gear and body reinforcement work. The powertrain and suspension were mostly stock — just with a lifted height, according to Electrek. All that extra load on the electric vehicle meant it had to make do with a reduced range of just 150 to 200 miles — a drop from the original 272-mile mark. During the Arctic and Antarctic parts of the trip, the Ramseys picked up tricks on keeping the car battery warm for improved efficiency. Most notably, they would pile up a snow wall to shield the car's underside and front radiator from the cold wind, or they would even use a dedicated tent to cover up the entire car, when it wasn't not too windy.      View this post on Instagram       A post shared by Pole to Pole EV (@poletopoleev) Depending on the weather, the duo would use either a 5kW wind turbine or a prototype solar hybrid charging solution to juice up their Ariya. Failing that, there were moments when they had to fall back to their petrol generator — a mandatory equipment for traversing the Arctic regions. Likewise with their diesel support vehicles, as no electric version of those exist. Chris explained to Expedition Portal that the purpose of "Pole To Pole EV" is to prove that electric vehicles make a viable replacement for existing diesel-powered expedition vehicles in the polar regions. In between the poles, the Ramseys traveled through the Americas, with the northern part being relatively easy thanks to the readily-available chargers along the way. It was a different story down south, but "Pole To Pole EV" collaborated with EV charging solutions provider, Enel X Way, to install chargers along their route through Central and South America — especially the Peru leg of the expedition. Better yet, Enel X Way has promised to keep these new chargers available to the public afterwards, thus extending its electric Pan-American charging corridor. This isn't the first time Chris and Julie Ramsey made headlines involving electric vehicles. Back in 2017, the Scottish couple became the first to enter and complete the Mongol Rally in an electric car — a modified Nissan Leaf Acenta. Charging was relatively easy between the UK and Turkey, but from there onwards, they had to rely on domestic plug sockets and would end up with many memorable encounters with locals. The two drove 10,000 miles in 56 days — quite a challenge given the modified Leaf's 90-mile range. "But we are pleased that a huge charging network has sprung up across the route since we completed the rally in 2017," Chris added, in case anyone else is up for the EV challenge.



Title:  A One Piece anime remake is in the works from Netflix and Wit Studio 

Right now’s a really good time to be a One Piece fan. Netflix announced on Sunday that it’s working with Wit Studio — the animation studio behind the early seasons of Attack on Titan and Vinland Saga — for a new anime adaptation of the long-running series. It’ll start fresh from the East Blue saga, or the beginning of Eiichiro Oda’s manga, which is now in its final saga and expected to wrap up in the next few years. One Piece follows the adventures of the rubber-limbed pirate Monkey D. Luffy and his crew, known as the Straw Hats. Both the manga and the original anime series have been ongoing since the late ‘90s. And, just this summer, Netflix released a live-action One Piece adaptation that was surprisingly well received considering Hollywood’s track record with live-action anime remakes. As many have been preparing for the inevitable void that will be left when the manga and original anime come to an end, the latest announcement couldn’t be better timed. There’s little information available about the new series at this stage beyond the fact that it will be called The One Piece and “will recreate the story of the original One Piece manga.” We don’t have a release date yet, but Netflix says it’s in production now.



Title:  Apple is testing App Store discount packages so developers can pull users into more subscriptions 

Apple says it has begun piloting a new App Store feature called “contingent pricing” that will help developers lure in customers with cheaper subscriptions based on their other purchases. The contingent pricing model will let developers offer discounts to customers who already have subscriptions to other services, be it those developers’ own apps or participating partners’. It’s starting with a select group of participants before rolling it out to more developers “in the coming months.” “Contingent pricing for subscriptions on the App Store — a new feature that helps you attract and retain subscribers — lets you give customers a discounted subscription price as long as they’re actively subscribed to a different subscription,” Apple wrote in a post on the Apple Developer website. “It can be used for subscriptions from one developer or two different developers.” Per 9to5Mac, Apple further explained that these bundled discounts will be highly visible to customers both on the App Store and “in off-platform marketing channels” so they can easily find and get in on the perks. It comes at a time of ongoing scrutiny into Apple’s practices with its App Store and how it handles in-app purchases, which came to a head in Apple’s battle with Fortnite owner Epic Games. Just this fall, Apple asked the Supreme Court to reverse its previous ruling that required it to allow developers to circumvent its 30 percent transaction fee by supporting outside payment systems. But it's still looking for ways to get back in developers' good graces. The company says it will release more information on the new program next month. Correction, December 17, 2023, 3:30PM ET: This story originally stated that contingent pricing allowed developers to offer cheaper plans than competitors. It actually only works between participating parties. We apologize for the error.



Title:  Blue Origin’s New Shepard rocket will return to flight tomorrow after over a year grounded 

Blue Origin, the space company founded by Jeff Bezos, has finally set a date for its New Shepard rocket’s first flight in more than a year, after a failure last September left it grounded by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). The company is targeting Monday, December 18 for liftoff from its West Texas facility. The launch window opens at 9:30AM ET. New Shepard won’t be carrying a crew for this flight, but will have science and research payloads on board, plus 38,000 student postcards stamped “Flown to Space!” from the Club for the Future program. It’ll be livestreamed on Blue Origin’s website starting 20 minutes before takeoff. Blue Origin’s reusable suborbital rocket has completed both crewed and payload missions in its past, including a flight with Bezos on board in 2021 that kicked off its entry into human spaceflight. Six of its 24 flights have had humans on board its crew capsule. On September 12, 2022, an uncrewed New Shepard experienced a failure after takeoff and crashed back to the ground. Before doing so, though, it was able to abort the capsule, which separated and made a safe parachute landing. The FAA conducted an investigation into the incident and gave Blue Origin 21 corrective actions to complete before it could fly again. The cause of the issue was found to be the failure of an engine nozzle that overheated. The FAA closed its investigation at the end of September this year.



Title:  Apple, Visa and Mastercard sued in proposed class action antitrust case over Apple Pay card fees 

A proposed class action lawsuit has accused Apple of accepting a form of bribe from Visa and Mastercard to ensure their dominance over point-of-sale payment card services for Apple Pay transactions, according to Reuters. As a result, the lawsuit says merchants have been forced to pay higher fees. The companies are being sued by beverage retailer Mirage Wine & Spirits in Illinois on behalf of “all merchants in the United States that accepted Apple Pay as a method of payment at the physical point-of-sale.” According to the complaint, Apple made an agreement with Visa and Mastercard that did away with any incentive for it to develop its own competing point-of-sale transaction payment network or allow other companies to make use of iPhone’s “tap to pay” NFC functionality with third-party wallet apps. On the iPhone, Apple’s own wallet app is the only option. All of this has led to inflated merchant fees, the suit argues. “In exchange for agreeing not to compete with Visa and Mastercard in the Relevant Market, the two card networks offered Apple a very large and ongoing cash bribe,” the lawsuit states. This bribe came as a percentage of the two companies’ transaction fees for credit and debit card payments made with Apple Pay. “Even as Apple Pay was in its infancy, the Entrenched Networks and Apple understood that this bribe would amount to hundreds of millions of dollars per year.” Apple has been accused of anti-competitive behavior with Apple Pay in the past for how it blocks third-party access to its contactless payment technology. But earlier this week, Reuters reported that Apple may open up NFC access in the EU to avoid a fine in a case that has been ongoing since 2020.



Title:  These tomatoes were lost on the International Space Station for almost a year 

In an interview this fall following his return to Earth from the International Space Station, NASA astronaut Frank Rubio shared a little mission anecdote that had us gripped: after he’d harvested one of the first tomatoes grown in space and bagged it up for a presentation, the bag and its contents went missing. With no trace of the fruit, the other astronauts jokingly accused Rubio of eating it. Then, eight months later at the beginning of December, the lost tomato reappeared. A photo shared by NASA now shows there were actually two tomatoes in the rogue sample — and, all things considered, they don’t look half bad. While a tomato left to rot on Earth isn’t a pleasant thing to come across, Rubio’s tomatoes just look a bit dried out. “Other than some discoloration, it had no visible microbial or fungal growth,” NASA wrote in a blog post. One small step for tomatoes, one giant leap for plant-kind. 🍅Two rogue tomatoes were recovered after roaming on station for nearly a year. NASA Astronaut Frank Rubio accidentally lost the fruit while harvesting for XROOTS, a soil-less plant experiment. https://t.co/ymAP24fxaX pic.twitter.com/AeIV8i6QKR — ISS Research (@ISS_Research) December 14, 2023 NASA has for years been experimenting with ways to grow food on the ISS and studying how the space environment affects plant growth. The red dwarf tomatoes were grown as part of a program called the eXposed Root On-Orbit Test System, or XROOTS, which uses a combination of hydroponic and aeroponic techniques instead of soil. Rubio, who was on the ISS for a record-breaking 371 days before his return in September 2023, harvested a batch of the tomatoes in March to be sent back to Earth and examined for the VEG-05 study. As for the sample Rubio hung onto, which he intended to show to schoolkids in an event a crewmember had planned, the astronaut said the tomatoes simply disappeared. “I was pretty confident that I Velcroed it where I was supposed to Velcro it, and then I came back and it was gone,” he said. Rubio said he spent “eight to 20 hours” looking for it, to no avail. Now that they’ve turned up (and since been thrown away), we’re just dying to know where they were hiding all that time. We've reached out to NASA and will update this story if we find out any more information.



Title:  The Morning After: The sad end of E3 

It's Saturday morning and I'm still thinking about the end of E3, once the biggest gaming show on earth, and the teenage dream destination for many Gen Z / Millennial gamers, by which I mean: me. Will there be a gaming (or tech) show in 2024 that will match my enthusiasm (in the past) for E3? Probably not. Apple is also testing out improved anti-theft software for iPhone users — just don't get your phone stolen before the feature gets out of beta. This week:  🎮😵 E3 is officially dead 📲🥷 iOS 17.3’s Stolen Device Protection will make life harder for iPhone thieves 🥚🤖 Tesla's latest Optimus robot can handle an egg without breaking it And read this: Social media account takeovers continue to happen, and with many reliant on platforms like Facebook, Instagram and YouTube for their income, an attack can derail everything. High-level hackers still tend to seek entities with deep pockets, targeting them with highly complicated attacks. But much of the cyber criminality today is social engineering jobs, aimed at mid-level creators with less experience (and resources). Katie Malone reports on how some victims have lost much to social engineering hacks. Like email more than video? Subscribe right here for daily reports, direct to your inbox. 



Title:  Microsoft Office apps arrive on Meta Quest VR headsets 

Meta Quest users will now be able to write reports, edit spreadsheets and create presentations — if they event want to do any of those tasks on a VR headset, that is. Android Central reports that support for the basic Microsoft Office suite has arrived on the original Oculus Quest, the Meta Quest 2, the Meta Quest Pro, and the latest model, the Meta Quest 3. Users can now download Microsoft Word, Excel and PowerPoint from the Meta Quest store for free. The company first revealed that it was going to launch Microsoft 365 app experiences for its headsets during its Connect 2022 event. It also promised users access to Outlook, Teams and a Windows experience as part of its partnership with Microsoft. To be able to use the basic Office suite apps on their device, users will need to have and log into their Microsoft account. The app files are pretty small because they run on the cloud, so they're quick to download and can run side by side for the multitaskers out there. According to The Verge, though, the apps aren't exactly optimized for virtual reality, so users may have to contend with tiny icons and other elements that don't work as well in the environment. In addition, it's not easy typing on the Quest's onscreen keyboard, so users may have to link Bluetooth accessories if they need to get some serious work done.



Title:  Activision Blizzard will pay $54 million to settle California's gender discrimination lawsuit 

California's Civil Rights Department (CRD) has announced that it has reached a settlement agreement with Activision Blizzard for a case it filed in 2021, accusing the company of systemic gender discrimination and fostering a culture that encouraged rampant misogyny and sexual harassment. The agency, which sued the developer when it was still called the California Department of Fair Employment and Housing, said Activision Blizzard will have to pay $54 million to settle its allegations. Out of the total, $45.75 million will go towards a fund meant to compensate female employees and contract workers who worked for the company in California from October 12, 2015 until December 31, 2020. In addition, the developer is expected to retain an independent consultant to evaluate its promotion policies and training materials, as well as to make recommendations based on what they see. If you'll recall, the agency's lawsuit alleged that female employees were overlooked for promotions and were paid less than their male colleagues. According to Marketwatch, though, the settlement will also see the agency withdraw its claims that there was widespread sexual harassment at the company. The department will reportedly have to file an amended complaint that only focuses on gender-based pay gap and discrimination. California's original lawsuit detailed how Activision Blizzard condoned a "frat boy" culture that encouraged certain unsavory behaviors. Male employees allegedly did "cube crawls," wherein they routinely groped and sexually harassed their female colleagues at their desks. A spokesperson for the company told Marketwatch that it is "gratified that the CRD has agreed to file an amended complaint that entirely withdraws its 2021 claims alleging widespread and systemic workplace harassment at Activision Blizzard." They added: "We appreciate the importance of the issues addressed in this agreement and we are dedicated to fully implementing all the new obligations we have assumed as part of it. We are committed to ensuring fair compensation and promotion policies and practices for all our employees, and we will continue our efforts regarding inclusion of qualified candidates from underrepresented communities in outreach, recruitment, and retention." Meanwhile, the department told the website that its announcement, which contains no reference to its earlier sexual harassment allegations, "largely speaks for itself with respect to the historic nature of this more than $50 million settlement agreement, which will bring direct relief and compensation to women who were harmed by the company’s discriminatory practices." As The Wall Street Journal noted when it reported the settlement, this lawsuit set the stage for Microsoft to acquire the developer. After reports came out that Activision Blizzard CEO Bobby Kotick kept sexual harassment allegations within the company from reaching its board of directors, the developer's shares fell, giving Microsoft the opening to offer a deal. The $68.7 billion acquisition was finalized in October after almost two years of contending with regulators trying to block the purchase.



Title:  Apple is settling a class action lawsuit over Family Sharing for $25 million 

If you used Apple’s Family Sharing feature with at least one other person and bought a subscription to an app through the App Store between 2015 and 2019, you might just get a settlement of up to $50 from the company. MacRumors reports that Apple will pay $25 million to settle a class action lawsuit that accuses the tech giant of misleading customers over Family Sharing. The feature lets up to six family members share app subscriptions with each other but allows individual developers to forbid people from sharing a single subscription if they wish to. The lawsuit, which was filed in 2019, accuses Apple of not being transparent about this and misleading customers by making them think they could share a subscription to every app available in the App Store. “[The] vast majority of subscription-based apps” did support Family Sharing, the lawsuit claims. The complaint also alleges that Apple placed ads on the landing pages of some subscription-based apps that didn’t support Family Sharing. This led “millions of customers” to download subscription-based apps believing they would be able to access them through their Family Sharing subscription, it says, citing YouTube Red and a puzzle game called Brainwell as examples of apps that didn’t support sharing their subscriptions with family members. Apple has reportedly denied any wrongdoing and has only agreed to settle the case to avoid the potential costs associated with a jury trial. The company did not respond to a request for comment from Engadget.



Title:  Nintendo has unofficial The Legend of Zelda: Link’s Awakening PC remake taken down (update) 

Update December 15, 2:10PM ET: As expected, Nintendo lawyers stepped in to force Itch.io to take down the game, so unfortunately it is no longer available to download. Our original coverage follows below. An anonymous and inventive Nintendo fan has recreated the Game Boy classic The Legend of Zelda: Link’s Awakening with a twist that separates it from the official 2019 remaster. The widescreen Windows remake adds high frame rate support and lets you zoom out to view a larger portion — or even all — of Koholint Island. But the game may not last long as Nintendo has a habit of crushing copyright-infringing fan games, even when crafted lovingly and offered for free like this one. Spotted on X (alongside a writeup by Polygon), Link’s Awakening DX HD is a love letter to the 1993 original and its 1998 color re-release. The unofficial port recreates the quirky Zelda installment with 120 frames per second (FPS) support, which the developer describes as adding “unparalleled fluidity.” The homebrew port also gets rid of the original’s transitions, which loaded a new screen every time you walked to the next one (old-school Zelda style). In this version, the camera pans fluidly as Links strolls around the island, something we imagine was no small task for the unnamed creator. Zoom level, available in the in-game settings menu, lets you pan out to a 1:1, half or one-third pixel scale, allowing you to view as much as the entire island simultaneously. This isn’t a static perspective, either. Each visible section is fully activated (as if Link were on it in the original) and swarming with enemies. You can move around in the panned-out views, swinging your sword at Moblins and searching for the next task without pausing to consult a static game map. The game’s developer posted the '90s love letter anonymously, likely to shield them (for a time, anyway) from Nintendo’s litigation-happy legal team. The 24 MB Link’s Awakening DX HD is a free download on itch.io, but we wouldn’t count on it staying there for much longer. Either way, you can watch a snippet of gameplay in the video below. I've found out that there's a port of Zelda Link's Awakening for PC and I'm amazed with it. This version not only offers widescreen support, but the game now runs at a single screen without any transitions and you can zoom out to see more of the overworld. pic.twitter.com/yQBbbFeytn — Vinícius Medeiros (@VinciusMedeiro6) December 13, 2023



Title:  Teenage Engineering’s OP-1 Field just got a nifty bit crusher effect 

Teenage Engineer’s OP-1 Field synthesizer/groovebox/thingamajig just got a fairly substantial system update. Software version 1.5.0 brings a fun new effect to the instrument and a long-requested feature. First up, there’s a new effect called Terminal. This is a bit crusher, finally bringing distortion to the synthesizer. The OP-1 Field and its lower-powered sibling have always been known for a stellar effects lineup, but these instruments have never had a bit crusher or any real way to add color via distortion. As an avid player, I can’t tell you the number of times I’ve had to use workarounds to fake overdrive and distortion. It looks simple enough to operate, with an aesthetic that calls to mind an old PC. You should be able to use this tool for gentle distortion and all-out audio mangling. Like all OP-1 effects, there are four parameters to fiddle with. The update also brings a much easier way to bounce, or merge, tracks. Teenage Engineering’s calling it “tape merge drop” and the tool includes a shortcut that automatically combines all of the audio from copied tracks into one track, so you can drop it down and continue building out a song. You could always bounce tracks on the OP-1 and Field, but it required some menu diving and a lot more time. Teenage Engineering has always been good about supporting the OP-1 line. It dropped a vocoder for the Field earlier this year and released multiple system updates for the original OP-1 in the recent past, and that thing came out in 2011. Obama wasn’t even in his second term yet. The company has had a busy month or so. It set music gear internet ablaze with the surprise launch of the EP-133 sampler and did the exact opposite with whatever this is. The new OP-1 Field update is available now.



Title:  Larian Studios chief says Baldur’s Gate 3 will never come to Game Pass 

Don’t hold your breath waiting for Baldur’s Gate 3 to show up on Game Pass. It’s not happening, according to Larian Studios founder Swen Vincke in an interview with IGN. The game designer said point blank that “it’s not going to be on Game Pass.” Vincke went on to note that this was always the plan and that the title had never been considered for placement in Microsoft’s subscription gaming platform. These statements occurred just one week after the game officially launched on Xbox Series X/S consoles. At the root of this decision is perceived value. Vincke says that Baldur’s Gate 3 is a “big game” that’s available for a “fair price.” He also touted the title’s lack of microtransactions and its complete story, saying “you get what you pay for.” To that end, a completionist run in Baldur's Gate 3 takes more than 140 hours, according to HowLongToBeat. That breaks down to about 40 cents an hour, which seems like a good value to me. Larian Studios isn’t Microsoft. This is a small company that needs all the money it can get, with Vincke suggesting that players who pay full-price for Baldur’s Gate 3 will allow the developer to “continue making other games.” This speaks to a larger issue within the gaming community regarding the “all-you-can-eat” nature of streaming subscription platforms like Game Pass. Obviously, paying $10 each month for access to hundreds of games is a great deal for consumers, but it remains to be seen how it impacts developers. Some smaller developers praise the added exposure that comes with launching on Game Pass, while others like Take Two call it a “lost opportunity” for publishers. Sony head Jim Ryan even called the platform “value destructive,” but he’s speaking about a primary competitor so, grain meet salt. Microsoft has held steady to the idea that Game Pass actually increases sales of included titles, as players fall in love with certain games and want to own them outright. There’s some evidence to support this. Starfield was available on the subscription service since launch day but still managed to be the best-selling title of September, according to figures published by VentureBeat. However, that old adage about cows and free milk must apply to some gamers. Most importantly, Baldur’s Gate 3 doesn’t need Game Pass. It’s one of the most popular and critically-acclaimed releases of the year, racking up a boatload of trophies at The Game Awards and selling around 20 million copies on Steam alone. The game’s also available on PS5 and, as mentioned, Xbox Series X/S.



Title:  The Xbox Series X is discounted again, plus the rest of the week's best tech deals 

The holiday shopping season is reaching the home stretch, but we're here to help if you're looking for a good deal on a last-minute tech gift. The Xbox Series X, for one, is back on sale at several retailers. Walmart has the game console down to an all-time low of $349, but if stock runs dry there, you can still grab it for $399 at Microsoft, Amazon and other stores. Beyond that, a four-pack of Apple's AirTag trackers is $19 off, the latest AirPods Pro are $50 off and a number of Sonos devices are discounted as part of a big holiday sale. We're also seeing price drops on recommended gaming laptops, MacBooks, tablets, microSD cards and more. Here are the best deals from this week that you can still buy today. Just be aware that not everything may ship in time for Christmas. This bundle pairs Microsoft's top-end Xbox with a copy of the popular action-RPG Diablo IV. Note that Walmart has had the console alone for $349, though that deal appears to be going in and out of stock. The Xbox Series X is available for $349 at Walmart at the time of writing, though stock appears to be spotty. If that deal runs out for good, a bundle that pairs the beefy game console with the action-RPG Diablo IV is down to $399 at Microsoft. That's $160 less than the usual cost of buying each separately. Amazon, GameStop and others have the console alone for $399 as well. While the Series X remains a bit light on must-play exclusives, the Xbox library includes a diverse collection of games we like, from blockbusters like Forza Horizon 5 to quirkier hits like Hi-Fi Rush to smaller-scale gems like Pentiment. The hardware itself is powerful enough to play games at a steady 4K/60 fps, with some titles capable of reaching higher frame rates. Unlike the less powerful Xbox Series S — which is $60 off itself — it also includes a disc drive. There's at least some chance we see a Series X refresh in 2024, but the current machine is an easier sell when it's discounted to this extent. This deal matches the Black Friday price for a bundle of Apple's Bluetooth trackers. A four-pack of Apple's AirTags is back down to $80 at Amazon, Walmart and other retailers. That's about $9 off its usual street price and $19 less than buying from Apple directly. The AirTag is the "best for iPhones" pick in our Bluetooth tracker buying guide, as its ultra-wideband wireless tech and ability to tap into Apple's Find My device network make it particularly convenient for locating lost items. Its battery is easily replaceable, too, plus it's water-resistant. It lacks any built-in adhesive or keyring hole, however, so you'll need to buy an extra accessory if you want to attach it to an item. While not an all-time low, this is still a solid discount on Apple's noise-canceling wireless earphones. The USB-C version of Apple's AirPods Pro is once again on sale for $200 at Amazon and Best Buy. We saw these noise-canceling earphones fall $10 cheaper during Black Friday, but this is still $20 below their average street price and $49 below Apple's list price. The AirPods Pro continues to offer effective active noise cancellation, pleasingly warm sound and a host of Apple-device-specific conveniences, which is why they're the "best for iOS" pick in our guide to the best wireless earbuds. Note, however, that Apple started selling this model's USB-C charging case on its own earlier this week, so if you're sitting on a Lightning-based pair and want to make the conversion, you can now do so without having to buy a whole new set. Amazon says this bonus credit will apply to your account within 24 hours of your purchase, and that it can only be used toward products shipped and sold by Amazon.com. You can get a $10 Amazon.com credit for no extra cost when you buy a digital Apple gift card worth $100 or more. Just use the code HOLAPP at checkout. If you'd rather shop at Target, that retailer is offering a $10 Target gift card alongside the same purchase until December 16. As a refresher, you can put an Apple gift card toward services like Apple Music and iCloud, App Store credit and purchases at Apple.com or Apple retail stores. We see promos like this periodically, but any bit of bonus money should be welcome if you often shop at these stores anyway. This $100 discount comes as part of a larger sale on Sonos soundbars, smart speakers and home theater gear. Most of the offers will run through December 24.  Sonos is running a holiday sale that brings many of its smart speakers, soundbars and home theater devices back to the prices we saw on Black Friday. The flagship Sonos Arc soundbar is $180 off at $719, for one, while the mid-range Sonos Beam and budget-level Sonos Ray are down to $399 and $223, respectively. All three are picks in our soundbar buying guide. Beyond that, the Sonos Era 100 is $50 off at $199 — with a two-pack discounted by $120 — while the larger Sonos Five is $110 off at $439. Both of those make our guide to the best smart speakers. Other devices like the Sonos Sub, Sub Mini and Roam are also cheaper than usual. All Sonos speakers generally provide the same perks: clean sound quality relative to other devices in their price range, easy pairing with other Sonos speakers, uncomplicated setups, AirPlay support and access to various streaming services through the Sonos app. They aren't cheap, and their connectivity can be limited, but they should suit most people looking to build a multi-room audio system. Just note that new Arc, Roam and other devices could arrive in 2024, according to a recent Bloomberg report. This is only $5 more than the all-time low for Amazon's 8-inch tablet. The Amazon Fire HD 8 tablet is back on sale for $60, which is $5 more than its all-time low but $40 off Amazon's list price. That price applies to the model with 32GB of storage; if you want more space (and don't have a microSD card), the 64GB model is available for a low of $70. The Fire HD 8 is far from an iPad in terms of performance and app support, but it may be the cheapest competent tablet for most people. It's light, it lasts 10 or so hours on a charge and it's quick enough for basic web browsing and video streaming. Amazon's Fire OS still includes lock screen ads and heavily pushes the company's own services, but it's hard to do better at this price. The 10.1-inch Fire HD 10 is also $50 off and down to $90, which is a $10 more than its Black Friday price. That one has the same software issues, but it's faster than the Fire HD 8 and features a sharper 1080p display. This ties the lowest price to date for Google's versatile 11-inch tablet. If you'd prefer a more premium Android slate, the Google Pixel Tablet is discounted to $399 at Amazon, Best Buy and others. We've seen this deal pop up a few times over the last month, but it matches the lowest price we've tracked. The Pixel Tablet earned a score of 85 in our review earlier this year. It's a perfectly solid 11-inch tablet in its own right, but what sets it apart is its included charging speaker dock. Pop the tablet onto that and it'll function like a pseudo-smart display. It's not the exact same as a Nest Hub Max, but you can use it to control smart home devices, stream music, display photos and the like. This discounted model includes 128GB of storage, but the 256GB version is also $100 off and available for $499. This matches the all-time low for our favorite smart strip light for most people. A 6.56-foot strip of the Govee LED Strip Light M1 is on sale for $40, which matches the lowest price we've seen. Normally, it retails around $60. We recommend the Strip Light M1 in our smart lights buying guide. It's simple to set up and delivers impressively bright colors to any area of the house where you'd like to add ambient lighting. You can apply different effects to separate parts of the strip through Govee's app, plus it's compatible with the Matter smart home standard. It can be an eyesore when it's not lit up, however, so you may not want to stick it out in the open. This is within a dollar of the best price we've seen for this recommended microSD card. The 256GB version of Samsung's Evo Select microSD card is still on sale for $15, which is within 60 cents of the lowest price we've seen. Normally, it retails around $18. The Evo Select is the "best value" recommendation in our microSD card buying guide: It's not as fast as our top picks, but it's quick enough for most tasks — expanding a Nintendo Switch's storage, for instance — and it provides a better cost-per-gigabyte ratio than most cards. This is a new low for the PC version of this well-regarded survival horror game, and it comes as part of a sweeping Holiday Sale on the Epic Games Store. Make sure to use Epic's coupon promo to see the discount.  If you're looking to stock up on a few new PC games, the Epic Games Store has kicked off its latest Holiday Sale. The key here is the Epic Coupon, which takes 33 percent off most games in the store as long as your cart totals $14.99 or more. The coupon will renew after each use, and you can apply it to games that are already discounted as part of the sale. This brings several new-ish titles down to the lowest prices we've tracked: The acclaimed survival horror game Alan Wake 2 is down to $27 with the coupon, for instance, while the shooter Remnant II and the action game Star Wars Jedi: Survivor can be had for lows of $20 and $23, respectively. Others like The Last of Us Part I, Red Dead Redemption 2 and Mortal Kombat 1 are also down to all-time lows. Epic says the sale will run until January 10. This matches the lowest price to date for Apple's highest-end smartwatch. A version of the Apple Watch Ultra 2 with a small Olive Alpine Loop is available for $699 at Amazon with a clippable coupon. That ties the lowest price we've tracked and takes $100 off Apple's MSRP. The Apple Watch Ultra 2 puts all the software benefits of the Series 9 in a more rugged design with a bigger and brighter display, twice the rated battery life and a customizable "Action Button" that you can use to quickly start a task. It also offers better waterproofing, more accurate GPS, a depth sensor and a loud siren for emergency SOS purposes. It is entirely too much smartwatch for most people, but this price makes it a little more appealing for endurance athletes with money to burn. This version of the 15-inch MacBook Air includes 16GB of RAM and a 512GB SSD. You should only take the plunge if you need a new laptop right now, though, as Apple will reportedly release updated models early next year. A variant of the 15.3-inch MacBook Air with an Apple M2 chip, 16GB of RAM and a 512GB SSD is available for $1,449 at Amazon and Best Buy. That's $250 off Apple's list price and the best price we've seen outside of a couple of special offers for My Best Buy Plus members. We gave the 15-inch Air a review score of 96 in June and currently recommend it in our laptop buying guide. The M2 chip remains plenty fast for everyday tasks, and the chassis is still supremely well-built, with a crisp display, comfortable keyboard, reliable touchpad, long-lasting battery and lively speakers. We recommend starting with 16GB of memory, but if you really need to save cash, configs of the 13- and 15-inch Air with less RAM and storage are also $200 to $250 off. You should only buy this if you need a new laptop right now, though; according to a report from reliable Bloomberg reporter Mark Gurman, Apple plans to roll out updated MacBook Airs with its new M3 chip in a few months, potentially in March. This is the best price we've seen for the top pick in our gaming laptop buying guide. Best Buy has a configuration of the ASUS ROG Zephyrus G14 with an AMD Ryzen 9 7940HS processor, 16GB of RAM, a 512GB SSD and an NVIDIA GeForce RTX 4060 GPU on sale for $1,100. That's the lowest price we've tracked and $100 less than the deal we saw on Black Friday. This model also includes a 14-inch display with a 1440p resolution and a 165Hz refresh rate. The ROG Zephyrus G14 is the top pick in our guide to the best gaming laptops: This config is plenty capable for playing modern AAA games but, at 3.6 pounds, it's not a complete anchor to carry around. A solid keyboard and trackpad help, too, though the 720p webcam could be sharper and there's a good bit of bloatware installed by default. The 512GB SSD isn't especially large either, though you can upgrade the storage if needed. Follow @EngadgetDeals on Twitter and subscribe to the Engadget Deals newsletter for the latest tech deals and buying advice.



Title:  Twitch rescinds policy that allowed ‘artistic nudity’ 

Twitch has quickly taken back its policy update that permitted users to post sexual content as long as it was labeled. In another update, the company said it is not going to allow any depictions of real or fictional nudity on its streaming platform. After giving users the green light to post “artistic nudity,” Twitch says some streamers created content that violated policy. The media streamed in response to the initial approval of sexually explicit content on Twitch was “met with community concern,” according to the update. The company said, “We have decided that we went too far with this change.” While a huge part of the initial decision was to allow for the “digital depiction” of artistic nudity, the company clarified that digital depictions of sexual content is a concern when artificial intelligence can be used to develop realistic images and that it can be difficult to discern between what's been digitally produced and real photography. We’re making some additional updates to our Sexual Content Policy. We realize that our earlier update caused confusion and appreciate all the feedback we’ve received. Thanks for always coming together with us to help build the best version of Twitch.Check out the changes here:… https://t.co/Qj9IJLntff — Twitch (@Twitch) December 15, 2023 Recently at TwitchCon in Las Vegas, the company introduced new moderation measures meant to keep inappropriate content out of stream chats. The issue of sexual abuse and inconsistent moderation policies through the site has been a recurring problem for the live-streaming platform. The company even dedicated a Safety Advisory Council in 2020 meant to tackle the site’s bad reputation for its moderation practices. Twitch’s back and forth stance on the issue of sexually explicit content has enraged some users. @Saruei_, a user on X wrote, “I got banned wrongly under your new policy for drawing a nude character without any visible genitalia. This is your own responsibility for not thinking through before establishing a new TOS and it is incredibly unfair to a lot of artists who fell into the same situation as myself.” Another Twitch user @LuxDenizen took to X to complain, “Sucks for the artists who were actually following all of the rules. THIS IS WHY WE CAN'T HAVE NICE THINGS.”



Title:  An Apple AirTags four-pack is back on sale for $80 

There are plenty of folks out there who'd prefer a practical gift to an offbeat one this holiday season. Apple's AirTags are handy little devices that could help you find and recover lost items, and so they make for great holiday gifts (as long as your intended recipient is an iPhone user). Now is a good time to pick up a few AirTags as a pack of four is on sale for $80. That's $19 off the regular price and it matches a deal we saw during the Black Friday period. Apple AirTags are a great gift for any iPhone user who keeps losing their stuff. The AirTag is our pick for the best Bluetooth tracker for iPhones as it taps into Apple's global Find My network. After you pair an AirTag with an iPhone or iPad, you'll be able to find it as long as it's within range of another Apple device. Otherwise, you'll be able to view the AirTag's last known location to give you a starting point. If you put the AirTag into Lost Mode, you'll receive a notification as soon as the tracker appears on the Find My network. Folks with an iPhone 11 or later will have ultra-wideband support on their device. That means they can harness the Find Nearby feature, which can guide them to the exact location of the AirTag once they're within a certain range without having to set off the device's ringer. As you get close to the tracker, your phone will start to vibrate. In addition, the AirTag is a robust little thing as it's water- and dust-resistant. You won't have to be too concerned about the battery either, as it only needs to be replaced roughly once a year. Meanwhile, you might want to consider picking up an AirTag accessory such as a case or holder to secure the tracker. Follow @EngadgetDeals on Twitter and subscribe to the Engadget Deals newsletter for the latest tech deals and buying advice.



Title:  OnePlus 12 with Snapdragon 8 Gen 3 will be available globally January 23 

The OnePlus 12 has officially launched in China and now the company’s most powerful phone is coming to the rest of the world. OnePlus has announced global availability for January 23, including the US. All told, the company ways the phone will be available in 50 markets worldwide. If you’ve been intrigued by the company’s latest flagship smartphone, you won’t have long to wait until getting your hands on one. This phone certainly has mouth-watering specs. You can soup it up with up to 24GB of RAM, which is more than I have in my work laptop and the same amount as my music and video-making desktop. The base model ships with 12GB of RAM, which is still plenty. As a comparison, the iPhone 15 boasts just 6GB of RAM. These phones also offer up to 1TB of storage and come outfitted with the Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 3 mobile chipset. Charging speeds are also great on paper, offering support for 100W wired fast charging and 50W wireless charging. Incidentally, the OnePlus 11 didn’t have wireless charging at all. There’s a new Sony LYT-808 sensor for the 50-megapixel main camera and a 64-megapixel periscopic telephoto camera. The 6.82-inch 120Hz AMOLED display is a 2K panel manufactured by China’s BOE Technology Group. The aesthetics resemble its predecessor, but the camera island’s color now matches the body. In addition to glossy white and classic matte black colorways, you can also purchase a OnePlus 12 in green. There’s no pricing yet, but in China this thing costs the equivalent of $610 for the base model and $820 for the high-end version with 24GB of RAM and 1TGB of storage. The OnePlus 12 is being released as part of the company’s 10th anniversary. This isn’t the only big news to come out of that celebration. OnePlus has also announced it’ll be selling the OnePlus 12R smartphone in other parts of the world beyond China and India, a first for the “R” series. However, OnePlus hasn’t announced any specs or information about the 12R. The OnePlus 11R was a slightly underpowered and budget-friendly version of the flagship phone, so maybe the 12R will follow suit.



Title:  Samsung HW-Q990C soundbar review: An all-inclusive Atmos setup 

NO js_post-content class to pull paragrapghs



Title:  The best laptops for 2024 

Whether you’re looking to upgrade your own laptop soon or buy one as a gift for someone you love, you have plenty of options to choose from. Too many, some might say: with the dozens of models available from Apple, Dell, HP, Lenovo and other brands, it can be confusing to figure out which works best for you and which specs you actually need the most. Should you pay extra for more memory, or get a notebook with a larger screen? That’s just one of the many questions you might be asking yourself as you sift through the plethora of laptops out there. After testing and reviewing dozens of the latest laptops, we’ve come up with top picks for the best laptops you can buy right now, along with buying advice that will hopefully help demystify the market for you. You probably have an idea of your budget here, but just so you know, most modern laptops with top-of-the-line specs can cost you around $1,800 to $2,000 these days. That doesn’t mean you won’t find a good system for under $1,000 — a grand is the base price for a lot of high-end ultraportables in the 13-inch category, with chips like Intel’s Core i3 or i5 series. And if that’s too expensive, you’ll still have respectable options in the $600 to $800 range, but they might come with older, slower processors and dimmer screens. I’ve included our favorite budget-friendly model in this best laptop roundup but we have a list of more-affordable laptop picks that you can check out as well. After working out how much money you want to spend, the laptop’s operating system is usually the first thing you have to narrow down. As always, the decision is slightly easier for people who prefer an Apple MacBook. Now that the company has brought its M-series chips to its whole lineup — your only real considerations are budget, screen size and how much power you need. Over on Team Windows, however, the shift to ARM-based chips hasn’t been as smooth. Though Apple laptops have been able to bring huge increases in battery life while maintaining (and in some cases improving) performance with their own silicon, PC makers have been limited by Windows’ shortcomings. Microsoft released Windows 11 last year, and it’s supposed to run better on ARM-powered machines. Since the first of these laptops, like Lenovo’s ThinkPad X13s or 10w tablet, haven’t been available for review yet, we can’t tell how well the system runs. Of course, you can upgrade to Windows 11 on existing ARM-based PCs, but for now, it’s still safer to stick with an Intel or AMD processor. Let’s not forget there’s a third and fairly popular laptop operating system: Chrome OS. If you do most of your work in a browser (lots of online research, emails and Google Drive), then a Chromebook might be a suitable, and often more affordable option. As for other things to look out for when shopping for the best laptop, it’s worth pointing out that some of the latest models coming out this year have done away with headphone jacks. Though this doesn’t seem to be a prevalent trend yet, it’s a good reminder to check that a machine has all the connectors you need (otherwise, you'll need to plan to buy the necessary adapters). Most laptops in 2022 offer WiFi 6 or 6E and Bluetooth 5.0 or later, which should mean faster and more stable connections if you have compatible routers and devices. While 5G coverage is more widespread this year, whether you need support for that depends on how much you travel. Where you plan on taking your laptop also helps in deciding what size to get. Many companies launched new 14-inch machines in the last year, straddling the line between ultraportable and bulkier 15-inch laptops. For most people, a 14-inch screen is a great middle ground. But if you’re worried about weight and want a more portable laptop, a 12- or 13-inch model will be better. Those that want more powerful processors and larger displays will prefer 15- or 16-inch versions. See Also: Best Gaming Laptops for 2023 Best Cheap Windows Laptops Best 2-in-1 Laptops for 2023 Best Chromebooks Best Laptops for College Students Display: 13.6-inch Liquid Retina | CPU: 8-core M2 | GPU: Up to 10-core | RAM: Up to 24GB | Storage: Up to 2TB | Weight: 2.7 lb (1.24 kg) As a Windows user, I find myself reluctant to name an Apple MacBook the best overall laptop. But I can’t deny that Apple’s transition to its own Silicon has made its machines better. The latest MacBook Air M2 is a worthy sequel to the M1 that came out in 2020, bringing a fresh design and a performance boost that all users will appreciate. That's not to say the M1 was a sluggish machine — quite the contrary. We found it to be impressively fast, and the M2 only builds on top of that excellent performance. It's probably overkill for a MacBook Air, but that means it will serve most people well for both work and play. Plus, its impressive 16.5-hour long battery life should be enough for anyone to get a day's worth of work and then some. As for its design, we like that Apple took a more uniformly thin approach here and retired the wedge shape of the previous model. The MacBook Air M2 also has a lovely 13.6-inch Liquid Retina display, interrupted only by the top notch which holds its 1080p webcam. Its quad-speaker setup is an improvement as well, and all of these small hardware changes add up to a machine that looks and feels more different than you may expect from its predecessor. The 13-inch Air is certainly the way to go for anyone that prizes portability above all else. However, if slightly more screen real estate is tempting to you, don't sleep on the 15-inch MacBook Air M2. The new laptop does everything that 13-inch model does well, while giving you a larger screen to work with in a still-svelte package. It doesn't side-step the very Apple issue of having a little less RAM and storage than we'd prefer in its base model (8GB, 256GB SSD), but that doesn't hold it back. It's one of the best MacBooks we've used recently and it gives fans of the Air lineup a new configuration to consider. Read our full review of the 13-inch MacBook Air M2  Display: 13.4-inch InfinityEdge | CPU: 13th-gen Intel Core | GPU: Intel Iris XE | RAM: Up to 32GB | Storage: Up to 2TB | Weight: 2.71 lb (1.23 kg) Our top pick for the best Windows laptop has long been Dell’s well-rounded XPS 13 series and it remains the best laptop for anyone that doesn't want a Mac. Yes, the new XPS 13 Plus lacks a headphone jack, and we haven’t got one in to test yet. But the XPS 13 is a well-rounded laptop and still one of the best-looking PCs out there. Like its predecessors, the Dell XPS 13 Plus offers a lovely OLED display with impressively thin bezels and packs a roomy, comfortable keyboard. It also features a new minimalist design that looks more modern. I’m not sure about the row of capacitive keys at the top in lieu of traditional function keys, but I’m confident that the laptop’s 12th-gen Intel Core processors will provide a healthy performance boost from the last model. If you’re not sure about the changes Dell has made to the XPS 13, or if you definitely need a headphone jack, the older generations are still solid options. There’s also the Samsung Galaxy Book 2 Pro series, which feature beautiful OLED screens and sharper webcams in thin and light frames. I also like Microsoft’s Surface Laptops, and the most recent edition offers great performance, versatility and good battery life, albeit in an outdated design. Read our full review of Dell XPS 13 Plus Display: 15-inch quad HD | CPU: 13th-gen Intel | GPU: NVIDIA GeForce RTX 40-series | RAM: Up to 32GB | Storage: 1TB | Weight: 4.4 lb (2.01 kg) Gamers should look for machines with solid build quality, responsive screens and ample port selection for their favorite accessories that can best help them defeat their virtual enemies. My colleague Devindra Hardawar goes into more detail about gaming performance and what to consider in his guide to buying a gaming laptop, which you should read to learn about different CPUs and GPUs, minimum specs and more. Our pick for the best gaming laptop is the Razer Blade 15. It’s a high-end model and the most expensive item on this list, but you get a 15-inch quad HD screen with a 240Hz refresh rate, 13th-gen Intel processors and NVIDIA GeForce RTX 40-series graphics. Different configurations are available, depending on your preference, including a Full HD 360Hz and a 4K 144Hz version. The Blade series is also one of the most polished and powerful gaming laptops around. Those looking for a budget gaming laptop should consider the ASUS ROG Zephyrus G14, which was our favorite model last year. The main reason it got bumped down a notch is because the 2022 refresh is almost $600 more expensive. It’s still a solid gaming laptop though, with an excellent display, roomy trackpad and plenty of ports in spite of its thin profile. Read our full review of Razer Blade 15 Display: 13.3-inch FHD | CPU: 10th-generation Intel Core i3 | RAM: Up to 8GB | Storage: 128GB | Weight: 3.52 lb (1.6 kg) Our favorite Chromebook is Lenovo’s Flex 5 Chromebook, which Engadget’s resident Chrome OS aficionado Nathan Ingraham described as “a tremendous value.” This laptop nails the basics, with a 13-inch Full HD touchscreen, a great keyboard and a 10th-generation Intel Core i3 processor. Its 4GB of RAM and 64GB SSD may sound meager, but in our testing the Flex 5 held up in spite of this constraint. It’s also nice to see one USB-A and two USB-C ports, eight hours of battery life and a 360-degree hinge that makes it easy to use the Flex 5 as a tablet. That’s a bonus, especially now that Chrome OS supports Android apps. Though the Flex 5 is two years old by now, this Lenovo Chromebook is a solid deal at around $400. In fact, you can sometimes find it on sale for as little as $300, making it a great option for someone looking for a basic browser-based machine on a tight budget. Read our full review of the Lenovo Flex 5 Chromebook Display: 13.3-inch micro-edge | CPU: AMD Ryzen 5000 series | GPU: AMD Radeon | RAM: 16 GB | Storage: 256GB | Weight: 2.2 lb (<1 kg) If you’re looking for a budget laptop priced around $800, your best bet is the HP Pavilion Aero 13. For around $799 (or often less when on sale), you’ll get a Full HD screen with a 16:10 aspect ratio and surprisingly thin bezels, as well as a comfortable keyboard and spacious touchpad. Importantly, the Aero 13 provides solid performance and relatively powerful components compared to others in this price range, with an AMD Ryzen 5000 series processor and Radeon graphics. Plus, this pick for best budget laptop has a generous array of ports and all-day battery life. Read our full review of HP Pavilion Aero  Display: 13-inch PixelSense | CPU: Intel Evo i5 | GPU: Intel Iris Xe graphics | RAM: Up to 32GB | Storage: Up to 1TB | Weight: 1.95 lb (883 g) For those who need their laptops to occasionally double as tablets, the Surface Pro series is our pick for the best 2-in-1 laptop. Compared to notebooks with rotating hinges, tablets with kickstands are often much slimmer and lighter. The Surface Pro 9 is Microsoft's latest 2-in-1 laptop model and if you've had your eye on a Surface for a while, just know to get the Intel version of this machine rather than the ARM model. In our testing, we found that the 5G ARM version of the Pro 9 was much slower than a flagship convertible should be and that's mostly due to the fact that lots of the Windows apps readily available on Intel's x86 hardware have to be emulated to work on Microsoft's custom ARM SoC. Considering you'll pay at least $1,000 for any Surface Pro 9 model, you might as well get a configuration that has as few limitations as possible. While we have our gripes about the Pro 9's overall ergonomics, it's undoubtedly one of the thinnest and lightest laptop alternatives you can get. It's attractive and has a gorgeous 13-inch display, and we still consider Microsoft's Type Cover to be one of the best you can get, period. They will cost you extra, though, so be prepared to shell out another $100 to $180 for one. Microsoft's Slim Pen 2 is another highlight, and it will be a must-buy stylus for anyone that loves to draw or prefers to take handwritten notes. Overall, if you want a machine that can switch seamlessly from being a laptop to being a tablet, the Intel Surface Pro 9 is one of your best bets. Of course, if you're married to the Apple ecosystem, you should consider an iPad Pro. Read our full review of Microsoft Surface Pro 9



Title:  Instagram rolls out new customizable Story templates 

Instagram is rolling out a feature that could help users have more fun with Stories. Starting today, you’ll have the ability to create Add Yours templates. “People will be able to develop and share their own custom, meme-able Add Yours templates by pinning GIFs, text and gallery images to a Story template,” Instagram says. To create an Add Yours template, add GIFs, text and images that you want to include to your story. Then, go to your Sticker Tray and select Add Yours templates. After that, pick the elements (text, images and GIFs) that you want to include in the template. Here's the kicker: once you share an Add Yours template in a Story, anyone else can use it and add their own touches. If you want to riff on someone else's template, tap on the Add Yours prompt when you see one in their Story. This will take you to the Camera, where you can see all the elements that are part of the template and play around with them, add your own and so on. If you tap the faces that appear on the left side of the sticker, you can see who else has put their own spin on a template. As for what you can do with the Add Yours templates, it's really your call. You might create an either/or quiz, start a trend of showing followers around your workspace or encourage folks to share the most ridiculous photos they have of their pets. Livening such prompts up with images and GIFs could help them stand out and get your template seen and riffed on by thousands of other users. Instagram rolled out templates for Reels last year.



Title:  Engadget Podcast: RIP E3 and diving into The Game Awards 

So long E3, we knew you weren’t long for this world. This week, Cherlynn and Devindra are joined by Engadget Senior Editor Jessica Conditt to talk about the death of E3 and what it means for the gaming industry. We also explore some of the highlights (and low points) of last week’s Game Awards, which couldn’t quite balance celebrating video games and functioning as a marketing tool. We’re particularly excited for Light No Fire, the next ambitious game from the folks behind No Man’s Sky, as well as Arkane Lyon’s Blade. Listen below or subscribe on your podcast app of choice. If you've got suggestions or topics you'd like covered on the show, be sure to email us or drop a note in the comments! And be sure to check out our other podcast, Engadget News! We mourn E3 and break down everything announced at the Game Awards with Jess Conditt – 00:40 Beeper Mini, Sunbird, and the endless quest to spoof iMessage – 37:57 Apple ads theft protection in iOS 17.2 beta – 54:12 EU set to hand Apple a huge loss in its legal fight with Spotify – 58:04 Google loses antitrust trial against Epic games – 59:30 Executives fired after Sports Illustrated tries to publish generative AI articles (with fake writers behind them) – 1:06:32 Netflix engagement report reveals its most popular shows and movies of the first half of 2023 – 1:07:23 Working on – 1:09:25 Pop culture picks – 1:10:24 iTunes Spotify Pocket Casts Stitcher Google Podcasts CreditsHosts: Cherlynn Low and Devindra HardawarGuest: Jessica CondittProducer: Ben EllmanMusic: Dale North and Terrence O'Brien



Title:  The best VR headsets for 2024 

VR hardware has matured a lot in the past few years, so if you’re intrigued and are considering a VR headset, now is a great time. The Meta Quest 3 just came out and it’s the best standalone headset we’ve tried. But there are more options that you might think if you want a more immersive experience: high-end, PC headsets are getting cheaper and the PS VR2 continues to be a good option for console gamers. The VR market is in a state of flux as we await Apple’s Vision Pro, but if you’re still hankering for some virtual action, we’ve collected some of the best VR headsets that we've tested and reviewed below. I tend to judge them on a few basic criteria: Ergonomics, immersion and controls. It's not that hard to shove a mobile display into a plastic virtual reality headset and strap some cheap elastic headbands onto it. But it takes skill to craft something that's well balanced and doesn't feel uncomfortable after 30 minutes. Immersion, meanwhile, comes from having high resolution screens with fast refresh rates, so everything looks sharp and smooth. Field of view is also a major element, as it describes how well VR screens can cover what you see. Having a narrow field of view makes it feel like you’re looking through a pair of binoculars, and limits your sense of “presence.” But a wide field of view can make it seem like you’re actually flying over the globe in Google Earth. And when it comes to controllers, the best options fit naturally in your hands and offer accurate tracking. The industry has basically adopted the design of Meta’s excellent touch controllers, but we're also seeing intriguing leaps forward like Valve's finger tracking gamepads. The long-awaited follow-up to the Quest 2 is an upgrade in every respect: It’s more comfortable to wear, it has higher quality screens and it has full-color mixed reality cameras, allowing you to see the real world alongside virtual elements. While it’s more expensive at $500, it’s also a far more capable headset than the Quest 2, with hardware and optics that will keep you happily immersed in VR for years. The Quest 3 is powered by Qualcomm’s Snapdragon XR2 Gen 2 chip, which Meta says has double the graphics power of the Quest 2. That additional power is noticeable in games like Red Matter 2, which feature updated textures that deliver an experience closer to PC VR. The Quest 3’s new displays run at 2,064 by 2,208 pixels per eye, offering an even better experience than the PlayStation VR2. Its mixed reality cameras also let you easily see the real world, in case you need to quickly answer a text or Slack message. And they enable games that can be built around your room. What makes the Quest 3 interesting is that it offers more than just solid VR: It also gives you a glimpse at what a mixed reality future could be. While it’s not as sharp or capable as Apple’s Vision Pro, that’s understandable. And just like previous Quest headsets, you can also plug it into a gaming PC for higher quality VR experiences. Read our full review of the Meta Quest 3 VR headset Over years since its release, the Meta Quest 2 remains the best budget VR option for the vast majority of consumers. It's completely cordless, and it's comfortable to wear for long sessions. And now that it’s back down to its $299 launch price, it remains the best way to jump into VR without spending a ton of money. Here’s what’s still good, though: there's a huge library of titles that you can experience anywhere, and it's bundled with Meta’s great motion controllers. You can also connect the Quest 2 to a gaming PC to stream more complex VR experiences. The Quest 2 features fast-switching LCDs with a resolution 1832x1920 per eye,t It also has a smooth 90Hz refresh rate, which is impressive for something running entirely on mobile hardware. The Quest 2's field of view isn't the best — it's been measured at just around 90 degrees — but it's still enough to enjoy most VR experiences. You can also use different face pads to increase its field of view a bit. And if you want an even more comfortable fit, you can snag the Elite headstrap for $49 (or $129 with a built-in battery and case). The Quest 2 may not offer the best VR experience, but it's certainly the most accessible headset on the market. Read our full review of the Meta Quest 2 VR headset The PS VR2 is one of the best headset we’ve tested. It offers dual 2K OLED HDR screens, effectively giving you 4K quality. It’s one of the most comfortable headsets around. And it has some genuinely refreshing new features, like eye tracking and headset haptics. (Yes, it can literally rock your noggin.) Best of all, the PS VR2 delivers high-quality virtual reality without the need for a $1,000+ gaming PC – all you need is a PlayStation 5. Now, our recommendation comes with a few caveats. At $550, the PS VR2 is more expensive than the PS5 itself. And it’s unclear how quickly its game library will fill up. The initial run has only a few exclusives, like Horizon VR and Gran Turismo 7, and we haven’t seen many new titles since then. But it’s still the easiest way to experience high-end VR, and it’s a major upgrade over the original PS VR. Read our full review of the PlayStation VR2 headset If you don't care about wireless VR, and you want to invest a bit more in a high-quality PC headset, HP's $599 Reverb G2 is meant for you. It was developed in cooperation with Valve and has some of the best features from the pricier Index headset, like near-field speakers. The Reverb G2 also has sharp screens, offering 2,160 by 2,160 pixels per eye, a 90Hz refresh rate, and a relatively wide 114-degree field of view. It's the first Windows Mixed Reality headset to include four sensors, which helps to ensure more accurate VR tracking, especially during fast-paced games. I also have to give HP credit for making a headset that’s extremely comfortable, thanks to its luxurious cushioning around the eye-piece and rear strap. The Reverb G2's motion controllers aren't my favorite, but they're a big step up from HP's previous model. You could always upgrade it to use Valve's finger-tracking controllers, but that involves snagging SteamVR sensors and a lot more setup. Still, it's nice to have the upgrade path available. Read our full review of the HP Reverb G2 VR headset Valve's Index kit remains one of the best high-end VR solutions on the market. For $999 you get the Index headset, Valve's finger tracking controllers and two SteamVR base stations. While we've seen higher-resolution headsets arrive in the last two years, it's still a very solid option, with a 1,440 by 1,600 pixel resolution, an eye-watering 144Hz refresh rate and a massive 130-degree field of view. I'd gladly lose a few pixels for the Index’s smoother and more expansive screen, which are still far beyond most other consumer headsets. As a SteamVR product, the Index requires installing two sensors at opposite corners of your room. And of course, it's wired to your PC. But that clunkiness is worth it for the higher refresh rate and more accurate tracking. Sure, it's not as easy to use as the Quest 2, but at this price range, we assume you'll suffer a bit of inconvenience to get a truly high-quality VR experience. Valve's finger tracking controllers are fantastic as well, with a convenient strap that locks them onto your hands. They make playing Half-Life: Alyx feel like a dream. It's unfortunate that other VR games haven't fully taken advantage of the finger tracking though. Read our full review of Valve Index VR kit  Essentially an upgrade for the Index, the Beyond is a unique spin on a VR headset from Bigscreen, the developer of a popular app for watching video in VR. It looks more like an oversized pair of goggles than a massive VR headset. The $999 Beyond is the lightest VR option we’ve ever seen (it weighs a tad more than a deck of playing cards), and its Micro-OLED screens are sharp and offer near-perfect contrast. Unlike LCD screens, black can look genuinely black with the Beyond. The downside, though, is that the Bigscreen Beyond is expensive. It’s $999 on its own if you’re just upgrading a Valve Index setup. If you’re starting from scratch, though, you’ll also need to buy two Steam VR base stations and a pair of Index controllers. That adds up to a whopping $1,578. The Bigscreen Beyond also requires a custom face cushion, which is built from a 3D facescan when you place your order. Unfortunately, that makes it harder to share than other headsets. There’s also no room for glasses, since it’s so slim. You can buy prescription lens inserts from Bigscreen for an additional fee. And of course, you’ll have to live with a cable tethered to your PC, there’s none of the freedom of the cordless Meta Quest headsets. For all of its complexity, though, the Bigscreen Beyond delivers the most immersive PC VR experience I’ve ever seen. Since it’s so light, you can easily wear it for hours. Together with its glorious screens, it’s the best option for VR enthusiasts who don’t mind dealing with cost and complexity for true immersion. Read our full review of the Bigscreen Beyond VR headset At the most basic level, a VR headset is simply a high quality screen that you’re holding up to your face. For a wired headset, the actual work of rendering a game is done on either a PC or game console. For completely wireless devices, like the Meta Quest 3, that work is handled right on the headset. They rely on either external sensors, or sensors built into the headsets, to map your physical space. While you can use a traditional gamepad or keyboard and mouse in VR, they typically use motion tracking controllers to immerse you in their 3D environments. While we’re still waiting for a truly great haptic VR bodysuit to arrive, you can still achieve accurate body tracking with most Steam VR-compatible PC headsets. The Valve Index and HTC Vive Pro 2 both rely on room-tracking sensors that can map your body more effectively than the built-in sensors on competitors. You can also add HTC Vive Trackers to wrist and leg straps, as well as belts, for even better coverage. The Meta Quest 3 doesn’t have any easy body tracking solutions, but you can add Vive trackers when it’s plugged into your PC to mimic a Steam VR headset. Only a few experiences, like VRChat, take advantage of full body tracking at the moment. Currently there aren’t any body tracking solutions for the PlayStation VR and VR2, but we’re intrigued by the company’s Mocopi body trackers, which were really announced in Japan. Oculus is the previous name for Meta’s VR hardware. Currently, Meta only supports the Quest 3, Quest 2 and Quest Pro, all of which are wireless headsets. As we explain above, PC VR headsets can generally achieve better quality virtual reality, since they rely on more powerful graphics hardware. Currently, Microsoft’s Xbox consoles don’t support any VR headsets.



Title:  Amazon boosts its satellite internet network with the help of space lasers 

Space lasers, once a mere futuristic joke, have become a real tool in building technology up there and making improvements for all of us down here. There's been NASA's use of space lasers to study plankton, plans to blast space junk and, now, a satellite network courtesy of Amazon. The company has announced that its Project Kuiper has built up its optical inter-satellite links (OISLs) capabilities to create a substantial mesh network of high-speed laser cross-links. This technology could result in faster data transmission to even the most remote places back on earth. In October, Amazon launched two prototype satellites and reported successful tests one month later, with the pair dispatching and retrieving data at speeds of up to 100 gigabits per second. "These tests demonstrated our ability to establish a single bi-directional link between two satellites, and initial data indicates that our design will be able to maintain cross-links between multiple satellites at once—the critical feature of a next-generation mesh network in space," the company stated. To successfully use OISLs, laser links had to maintain contact at a distance up to 1,616 miles while also contending with spacecrafts moving at a speed of 15,534 miles per hour. Plus, Amazon had to minimize light spreading in order to maintain the signal and account for any additional dynamics of all these moving pieces — something it says has been successfully done. Amazon also claims the mesh network moves data about 30 percent faster than terrestrial fiber optic cables can. "Amazon's optical mesh network will provide multiple paths to route data through space, creating resiliency and redundancy for customers who need to securely transport information around the world," Ricky Freeman, vice president of Kuiper Government Solutions, explained in a statement. "This is especially important for those looking to avoid communications architectures that can be intercepted or jammed, and we look to forward to making these capabilities available to public sector customers looking to move and land data from remote locations to their desired destination." Basically, anyone from a cruise ship passenger to a multi-day hiker should be able to get a connection if this is successful. Project Kuiper started in 2019 but has seen a real boost in the last few months. With these successful tests completed, Amazon states that Project Kuiper is starting satellite production, with "full-scale deployment" beginning in the first half of 2024. It also predicts that early customer pilots will begin in the second half of the year. Notably, Amazon signed a deal with SpaceX to launch more Project Kuiper satellites at a faster rate.



Title:  The Morning After: Intel unveils its first chips built for AI work 

Just a week after AMD revealed its own Ryzen 8040 hardware, Intel has entered its own AI PC era. The company’s new Core Ultra notebook chips, codenamed Meteor Lake, are Intel’s first processors to include an NPU, or neural processing unit, for accelerating AI tasks. Intel claims the Core Ultra chips use up to 79 percent less power than AMD’s last-gen Ryzen 7840U while idling in Windows, and they’re also up to 11 percent faster than AMD’s hardware for multithreaded tasks. Intel, however, didn’t have the upcoming Ryzen 8040 chips to test against. They use the company’s new Intel 4 (7nm) process and should be “the most efficient x86 processor for ultrathin systems.” As for AI workloads, Intel says Core Ultra chips can reach up to 34 TeraOPS when combining performance across the NPU, GPU and CPU. The big difference is the NPU: It’ll enable features like Windows 11’s Studio Effects, which can blur backgrounds and improve video lighting without hurting your battery life much. With more creative AI workloads, Intel says the Ultra 7 165H is 70 percent faster than the rival Ryzen 7 7840U in Adobe Premiere Pro. Check out the rest of the specs and benchmark tests from Intel over here, and expect to hear more “AI PC” bluster in 2024. Oh, and nothing to do with Intel’s chips, but be ready for everyone to be playing with AI-generated backgrounds on Instagram this week. — Mat Smith Twitch clears up its confusing sexual content guidelines Instagram now offers AI-generated backgrounds on Stories Time to get miserable about the COP28 declaration ​​You can get these reports delivered daily direct to your inbox. Subscribe right here! Meta finally rolled out searchable tags for all users on Threads, its microblogging Instagram offshoot, and users are taking advantage of a design quirk for a bit of dumb fun. Threads’ “topic tags” are a lot like hashtags, but not entirely the same. For one, there’s no hash (#). It’s pretty basic stuff… which makes the effectiveness of a new prank feel all the more absurd. Someone can create a Threads post, ideally with a lot of text, then slap a “Show more” tag at the end, seemingly in the middle of a word or sentence. You, the unwitting victim, will then click “Show more” expecting to see the rest of the post, but — surprise! — it’ll direct you to the page for that tag instead. Ah, pranks. Just in time for Thread’s awaited Europe launch… Continue reading. When Insomniac Games launched Spider-Man 2, it didn’t yet have features like New Game+ and audio descriptions. Community and marketing director, James Stevenson, shared that New Game+ “should” arrive before the end of 2023. But Insomniac has now released a statement explaining it’s targeting the next Spider-Man 2 update for early 2024. Insomniac went on to explain it’s adding more “highly requested features” to the game, such as replaying missions and changing the time of day. Continue reading. Gaming laptops have been some of the most intriguing portable PCs for the past few years. They’ve gotten thinner and lighter, but also vastly more powerful and efficient, thanks to advanced CPUs and GPUs. Gaming laptops are where PC makers can get adventurous, with things like rotating hinges and near desktop-like customizability. We lay out the specs that matter, the price you can expect to pay and some of our standout favorites. Continue reading.



Title:  Apple is adapting the Hugo Award-winning sci-fi book series Murderbot 

The Hugo Award-winning The Murderbot Diaries books from Martha Wells are becoming a 10-episode Apple TV+ series starring Alexander Skarsgård, Apple announced. It will follow a self-aware "SecUnit" robot that must hide its free will in order to complete a dangerous assignment and comes from About a Boy creators Chris and Paul Weitz. "Murderbot is an action-packed sci-fi series, based on the award-winning books by Wells, about a self-hacking security android who is horrified by human emotion yet drawn to its vulnerable 'clients,'" Apple wrote. "Murderbot must hide its free will and complete a dangerous assignment when all it really wants is to be left alone to watch futuristic soap operas and figure out its place in the universe." The Weitz brothers will write, direct and produce the series, while Skarsgård will also serve as executive producer. Apple TV+ currently offers other sci-fi series including Silo, For All Mankind, Invasion and others. The streaming service needs to keep the content flowing as it has doubled Apple TV+ prices in just over a year. At the same time, Apple is looking for the right kind of content as it aims to avoid hot-button topics following the cancellation of The Problem with Jon Stewart. Several Murderbot chapters have made Engadget's gift guides and recommended reading lists. We called the Fugitive Telemetry novella a "banger" with "space intrigue and robotic mysteries" and recommended the earlier novella series in our 2019 holiday guide.



Title:  Apple Watches being pulled from stores this week due to potential import ban 

NO js_post-content class to pull paragrapghs



Title:  Disgraced Nikola founder Trevor Milton gets 4-year sentence for lying about EVs 

NO js_post-content class to pull paragrapghs



Title:  Google’s Stadia Controller salvage operation will run for another year 

NO js_post-content class to pull paragrapghs



Title:  What turns a fungal scavenger into a killer? 

NO js_post-content class to pull paragrapghs



Title:  Not all pickups are work trucks—Toyota aims the 2024 Tacoma off-road 

NO js_post-content class to pull paragrapghs



Title:  Musk’s X hit with EU’s first investigation of Digital Services Act violations 

NO js_post-content class to pull paragrapghs



Title:  Adobe gives up on $20 billion acquisition of Figma 

NO js_post-content class to pull paragrapghs



Title:  An Interview with Cities: Skylines 2 developer’s CEO, Mariina Hallikainen 

NO js_post-content class to pull paragrapghs



Title:  Daily Telescope: Tracking the Sun’s path every day across the sky 

NO js_post-content class to pull paragrapghs



Title:  A song of hype and fire: The 10 biggest AI stories of 2023 

NO js_post-content class to pull paragrapghs



Title:  Love at first ride: The Specialized Turbo Creo 2 Comp gravel e-bike 

NO js_post-content class to pull paragrapghs



Title:  How Microsoft’s cybercrime unit has evolved to combat increased threats 

NO js_post-content class to pull paragrapghs



Title:  Here’s how an off-road racing series will make its own hydrogen fuel 

NO js_post-content class to pull paragrapghs



Title:  This “smoking gun” killed the McDonald’s ice cream hackers’ startup 

NO js_post-content class to pull paragrapghs



Title:  A top-secret Chinese spy satellite just launched on a supersized rocket 

NO js_post-content class to pull paragrapghs



Title:  Marketer sparks panic with claims it uses smart devices to eavesdrop on people 

NO js_post-content class to pull paragrapghs



Title:  The Pixel 9 might come with exclusive “Pixie” AI assistant 

NO js_post-content class to pull paragrapghs



Title:  Tesla Model 3 may lose $7,500 tax credit in 2024 under new battery rules 

NO js_post-content class to pull paragrapghs



Title:  Twitch quickly reverses policy that “went too far” allowing nudity 

NO js_post-content class to pull paragrapghs



Title:  X-ray imaging of The Night Watch reveals previously unknown lead layer 

NO js_post-content class to pull paragrapghs



